israel ' s war cabinet ha use a tri - and - trust phrase to describ it next move against iran . israel would respond `` in the manner and at the time of our choos `` . benni gantz , the opposit leader who join the war cabinet after the hama attack of 7 octob , emphasis the cohes of israel and it western alli . `` israel against iran , the world against iran . thi is the result . that is a strateg achiev which we must leverag for israel ' s secur . '' the word mr gantz use did not rule out anoth attack on an iranian target , or a first overt isra strike insid iran ( israel ha hit iran ' s nuclear programm repeatedli , with cyber - attack and the assassin of offici and scientist ) . but there might be time for the diplomat respons presid joe biden want from the meet he ha call of the g7 , the richest western countri . thi most recent escal of the war that ha spread across the middl east sinc hama attack israel began two week ago , when israel attack iran ' s embassi compound in damascu . the air strike , on 1 april , kill a senior gener , hi number two and other aid . the decis to attack wa not coordin with the american . israel must have assess the opportun to kill senior command of iran ' s islam revolut guard corp ( irgc ) as a risk worth take . publicli israel offer an unconvinc argument that the presenc of senior militari offic on diplomat premis made the build a legitim target . more importantli is the fact that iran chose to interpret the airstrik as an attack on it own ground . veri quickli , it wa clear that iran would respond . iran ' s messag wa not transmit with nudg and wink , but in unequivoc statement from it suprem leader ayatollah ali khamenei . israel , the us and their alli had plenti of warn . mr biden had time to get back to the white hous from a weekend trip to hi home state of delawar . iran chose to open the attack not with superson ballist missil , but with slow drone , that were on radar screen for two hour as they approach their target . it wa a bigger attack than mani analyst expect from israel ' s most bitter enemi ; plenti of reason for mani isra to expect a respons from their own side . for the first time iran launch weapon - around 300 drone , cruis and ballist missil - from it own territori at israel ' s . almost all of them were stop by formid air defenc ; israel ' s own consider capabl , bolster by the us , uk and jordan . their alli , especi the us , help them out enorm over the cours of the night . presid joe biden reiter hi promis : `` ironclad `` secur for israel , essenti say ' we ' ve got your back ' . in return , the american want restraint from israel . presid biden sent prime minist benjamin netanyahu a clear messag . iran ' s attack ha been thwart , israel ha a victori , so do not escal thi ani further by respond with militari strike on iranian soil . a senior western diplomat told me that it wa now vital to draw a line , to stop further escal . draw a line seem to be iran ' s hope too . it ha signal that israel ' s attack in damascu ha been answer ; it will onli escal further if it is attack again . the iranian seem to want to cool the two week of crisi and threat that start with the isra strike on their diplomat compound in damascu . perhap iran wa hope to do more damag than it did . or it may have been open about it plan to give israel less reason to hit back . iran want to restor the sens of deterr it lost when israel attack the compound in damascu . that might be harder after israel and it alli stop almost all the projectil launch their way . it wa not a full - scale attack on israel . iran ha been build up it rocket and missil forc for year . it could have fire mani more weapon . hezbollah in lebanon would have join in with an all - out offens , and it did not . the lebanes militia and polit movement is iran ' s strongest alli , with an arsen of rocket and missil . prime minist netanyahu might draw some satisfact with the way that the iran attack remov gaza from the headlin . it give him a respit from the humanitarian catastroph , and israel ' s failur to achiev it war aim of free the hostag and crush hama . a few day ago , intern focu wa on the rift between mr biden and mr netanyahu over the famin creat by israel ' s blockad of gaza . now they talk about uniti . mr netanyahu can also present himself as a resolut and reason leader , the protector of hi peopl even though hi mani enemi in israel want him out of offic . they say hi rash , unsaf polici befor 7 octob led hama to believ israel wa vulner . what ha not chang is that the american want to find a way to stop the slide to an all - out middl east war . red line have been cross - israel ' s attack on a diplomat site , and iran ' s direct attack on israel . immedi , some isra right - winger demand a respons . those call will not stop . the job of the diplomat at the g7 will be to prevent the region enter a damag wider conflict . the slide ha been slow , but also steadi and in one direct , toward disast , in the six month sinc hama attack israel . if israel take presid biden ' s advic not to hit back , the middl east might be abl to take a breath . it is by no mean certain that thi is the end of thi danger episod .