it is the good news stori us presid joe biden ha been wait to celebr and one which he badli need right now . toast the return of power - share devolv govern to northern ireland after a gap of two year . it will add some shine to the st patrick ' s day celebr in washington dc thi week and provid a time boost for team biden ahead of the presidenti elect in novemb . on sunday , the presid will mark the occas when he host the first and deputi first minist in the white hous . expect lot of back slap now the polit fruit of the good friday agreement are back on track . but while the resolut of one conflict 26 year ago is still be celebr , anoth conflict will overshadow the festiv in washington thi week . the isra air strike and ongo ground oper in gaza in respons to the hama attack on 7 octob will place a strain on relat between the visitor and their host . that wa clear from the moment taoiseach ( irish prime minist ) leo varadkar land in the unit state earlier in the week . at hi first engag in boston on monday he told hi us audienc `` when thousand of children are be kill no one can avert their eye `` . it wa a veil swipe at the us support for the bombard of gaza . howev , the taoiseach wa care to also reflect on the `` act of pure evil `` carri out by hama in octob . that speech is like to set the tone for what we can expect thi week . though the biden administr is push hard to get humanitarian aid into gaza , the us veto three un resolut call for a ceasefir . first minist michel o ' neill , of sinn féin , who like the other polit leader wa under pressur to boycott the white hous , said she will speak up for palestinian . deputi first minist emma littl - pengelli is like to follow her parti - the democrat unionist parti ( dup ) - in it support for the isra govern . asid from those difficult convers , the first and deputi first minist will be keen to cash in on the good will gener by stormont ' s return . judg by the list of engag , they will take centr stage in washington thi week and are like to be the go - to coupl for selfi . but their focu will be on the £ 5bn ( $ 6 . 4bn ) in us invest promis by presid biden on stormont ' s return . that pledg wa made dure hi visit to belfast in 2023 . the presid ' s point man in northern ireland , special envoy joe kennedi , will be under pressur to deliv . to that end he is host a number of invest gather thi week which will be attend by the first and deputi first minist . economi minist conor murphi will also be in attend , along with stormont speaker edwin poot . educ minist paul givan is join the deleg in washington , where he will be lobbi to secur extra invest for childcar . dup leader sir jeffrey donaldson is also make the trip . in 2023 , northern ireland secretari chri heaton - harri play a lead role dure the festiv as the onli polit gatekeep in offic . thi year he will be happi to drop to the support - role categori , make way for the local elect politician to step up . but while it may feel like a lap of honour now stormont is back , there is enough to keep mind focus elsewher .