the us hous of repres ha vote to pass legisl that would sanction the intern crimin court ( icc ) after it prosecutor appli for arrest warrant against isra offici . the move come after the hagu - base court ' s prosecutor said isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu and isra defenc minist yoav gallant should be arrest on charg relat to the war in gaza . the prosecutor is also seek warrant for three leader of hama . the bill , propos by pro - israel republican , target icc offici involv in the case by block their entri to the us . on tuesday , it pass with a major of republican support by a vote of 247 - 155 . two republican vote `` present `` and 42 pro - israel democrat cross the aisl to back the legisl . though the bill pass in the hous , it is not expect to becom law . the legisl will like be ignor by democrat who control the us senat , where it would have to pass befor it could be sign into law by the presid . but presid joe biden ha also indic that he `` strongli oppos `` the bill and the administr ha said it doe not support the sanction . if it did becom law , howev , the legisl would also revok ani us visa held by icc offici and restrict them from make properti transact in the us . some senat democrat , like john fetterman of pennsylvania , an outspoken support of israel , have indic they would support legisl sanction the court . “ i realli would like to sanction the icc for that . that wa trash , ” fetterman said of the arrest warrant . congressman chip roy , a texa republican who introduc the legisl in the hous , titl the illegitim court counteract act , ha call the icc “ a massiv threat to us sovereignti ” . the democrat who oppos the measur larg support israel , but have criticis mr netanyahu ' s conserv govern . some democrat oppon said it risk forc the us to sanction alli nation that support the icc . when the measur clear the hous rule committe on monday , jim mcgovern , a massachusett democrat , said : “ thi bill make a mockeri of the rule - base intern order that america help build . ” the bill ' s passag come shortli after mr netanyahu wa invit by us lawmak to deliv a speech to congress thi summer , although the date of hi speech ha not been finalis . last month , icc chief prosecutor karim khan said he had `` reason ground `` to believ that mr netanyahu and mr gallant , as well as hama ’ s gaza leader yahya sinwar , militari chief moham deif and polit leader ismail haniyeh , bore `` crimin respons `` for alleg war crime and crime against human dure the war in gaza . it mark the first time the icc ha target the top leader of a close us alli . '' the icc ha to be punish for thi action , '' republican speaker of the hous mike johnson said on tuesday . `` we can not allow thi to stand . '' '' if the icc wa allow to do thi and go after the leader of countri whose action they disagre with , whi would they not come after america ? '' israel ’ s govern and hama react with outrag to mr khan ' s announc last month . mr netanyahu denounc the warrant applic against him and mr gallant as a “ moral outrag of histor proport ” . mr gallant accus the prosecutor of draw a “ despic ” parallel between israel and hama and attempt to deni hi countri ’ s right to self - defenc . hama - which is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the us and other countri - demand the cancel of the warrant applic for it leader and denounc what it call mr khan ' s attempt “ to equat the victim with the execution `` . if the icc ’ s judg decid to issu the arrest warrant , it will be up to it 124 member state - includ the uk and mani other us alli - to decid whether or not to enforc them . the white hous said in a statement on monday that while the icc prosecutor ’ s warrant applic for isra leader were `` outrag `` , it did not support sanction the icc . '' there are more effect way to defend israel , preserv us posit on the icc , and promot intern justic and account , and the administr stand readi to work with the congress on those option , ” it said . creat by a un treati in 2002 , the icc investig and bring to justic those respons for genocid , crime against human and war crime , interven when nation author can not or will not prosecut . the us - like israel - is not a member of the icc and doe not recognis it jurisdict , but ha back it previou prosecut and arrest warrant not relat to israel and the palestinian . in 2020 under the trump administr , the us impos sanction on top icc offici , includ mr khan ’ s predecessor , after the court began investig alleg war crime commit by the us and other in the afghan conflict . the ongo conflict in gaza began when hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 251 other hostag , accord to isra author . at least 36 , 470 peopl have sinc been kill in gaza dure israel ’ s militari campaign to destroy hama , accord to the hama - run health ministri .