three rusti water - truck stand at the edg of kibbutz malkiya , on israel ’ s border with lebanon ; littl bigger than a famili car , they look like someth out of an old cartoon . a collect of industri leaf - blower is stack nearbi . “ thi is all we have , ” resid dean sweetland explain . “ we have just these - and the leaf - blower - to blow the fire back onto the dead area . ” dean , a london who move to the kibbutz eight year ago , is one of a dozen resid left to tackl recent bushfir in the area , spark by hezbollah rocket from lebanon . “ we ’ re on our own , ” he say . “ the flame can be six metr tall . sometim you just can ’ t get near it . ” he gestur to the leaf - blower stand in the sun . “ and we ’ re fight it with garden tool . ” over the past few day , footag of the fire ha made headlin in israel . the blaze , trigger when hezbollah rocket hit dri undergrowth in soar summer temperatur , have burn through 3 , 500 acr , accord to forest administr . monday wa “ a battl day ” , said israel ’ s fire and rescu commission , eyal caspi , with 94 fire burn across these northern hill . most are now out , or under control , but rocket fli over home here sever time a day and each one carri the potenti to spark a new blaze . and there are place at the moment where firefight don ’ t go . “ there is a war here and in a war zone , oper are differ , ” mr caspi told israel ’ s kan news radio station . “ in certain area , where there is no immedi danger to human life ... where the armi know that the firefight can get hurt , it give us the instruct not to enter . and i back it up . ” from the back terrac of hi home - built from ship contain , a few hundr meter from the lebanes border - dean sweetland point out the plume of grey smoke rise from the hill nearbi , to the sound of distant bomb and fighter jet . most of the other resid of kibbutz malkiya were evacu in the day follow the hama attack on israel on 7 octob , when it hezbollah alli in lebanon began fire on commun here . both arm group are label as terrorist organis by israel , the us and other . but dean , who use to serv in the british armi , stay on . he is part of a group of resid from border commun who race to put out the fire that fire crew are block from access . the isra armi , he say , is not a solut . “ especi when we ’ re in the line of sight for hezbollah , they ’ ll see the soldier and send a rocket , ” he say . “ we hear the drone when we ’ re put the fire out . ” in the earli day of the war , dean say , tank were park around the kibbutz and attract a lot of hezbollah fire . they ’ ve now left , and in between the bombard , the kibbutz is peac . but dean and hi neighbour feel the empti . famili evacu eight month ago are still live in temporari accommod further south . the blaze here are a vivid remind that the isra govern ’ s promis to secur these northern area and get resid back home is still unfulfil . “ we feel like we ’ re the forgotten peopl , ” dean say . “ they don ’ t care about the north . ” the attitud among mani in the countri , he say , is “ let it burn ” . “ i think we have to take out hezbollah for 10km , mayb more , ” say yariv rozenberg , the deputi command of kibbutz malkiya ’ s civil defenc team . “ you can ’ t kill them all , and they won ’ t leav from here . but we need more armi here , and we need to go back to our life – to bring our famili back . ” as the month go by , pressur is mount on israel ’ s govern to resolv thi conflict and get peopl home . israel ’ s far - right secur minist thi week call for israel to burn “ all hezbollah stronghold : destruct , war ! ” other have been more measur . war with hezbollah would be a much more difficult and danger conflict than the one israel is fight in gaza . hezbollah ’ s deputi chief , sheikh naim qassem , told the al jazeera televis station that the group wa not seek to widen the conflict but that ani isra expans of the war would be met “ with devast ” . befor a meet of the war cabinet to discuss the situat on tuesday night , the isra militari ’ s chief of staff , lt gen herzi halevi , said the countri wa “ approach the point where a decis will have to be made ” . the arm forc , he said , were “ prepar and readi to move to an offens ” . prime minist benjamin netanyahu , visit troop and firefight in the northern town of kiryat shmona on wednesday , said the govern wa prepar for “ a veri strong action in the north . ” “ one way or anoth we will restor secur to the north , ” he said . mani believ a ceasefir in gaza would help cool the situat further north . “ gaza is the key , ” dean say . “ it need to be dealt with , one way or the other . then hezbollah will stop , becaus they ’ re do thi in support of hama . ” the northern conflict is close link to the war in gaza . for the past eight month , with the focu on gaza , israel ’ s leader ha tri to keep thi conflict contain . now he ’ s face a glare remind of thi other front : caught between the war he hasn ’ t finish in the south , and the war he doesn ’ t necessarili want to start .