the us secretari of state ha flown to the middl east to discuss a post - war plan to govern and secur gaza . antoni blinken ' s talk with arab leader in saudi arabia and then egypt will focu on what the us call `` an architectur for last peac `` . it come as wit said isra forc had escal their oper around al - shifa hospit in gaza citi , carri out a number of air strike . earlier , israel ' s militari said it had kill 90 gunmen there sinc monday . separ , indirect negoti between israel and hama are continu in qatar to bring about a ceasefir and the releas of hostag . but there are few sign that a breakthrough is immin . mr blinken ' s sixth trip to the region sinc the start of the war in gaza saw him land in jeddah on wednesday afternoon to meet the saudi leadership . descend from the plane shortli befor sundown he wa greet by wait offici , includ mazin al - himali from the saudi foreign ministri , who embrac mr blinken . he is expect to meet the saudi crown princ , moham bin salman , at the royal palac on wednesday night . state depart spokesman matthew miller said they would discuss effort to reach a ceasefir agreement and increas aid deliveri to gaza , amid further dire warn about the scale of the humanitarian crisi there . a un - back food secur assess thi week said 1 . 1 million peopl in gaza were struggl with catastroph hunger and starvat , ad that a man - made famin in the north wa immin between now and may . also on the agenda would be `` co - ordin on post - conflict plan for gaza , includ ensur hama can no longer govern or repeat the attack of 7 octob , a polit path for the palestinian peopl with secur assur with israel , and an architectur for last peac and secur in the region `` , mr miller ad . mr blinken will travel to cairo on thursday to meet egyptian leader . the american are tri to bring togeth a major deal that would put the intern - recognis palestinian author ( pa ) back into gaza for the first time sinc it wa driven out by hama 17 year ago . noth ha yet been drawn up , but the idea are thought to includ possibl support on the ground from arab nation , while all the parti includ israel would commit to pursu a two - state solut - the long - held intern formula for peac . the major arab sponsor saudi arabia would normalis relat with israel in return for access to advanc us weapon and an american - back civilian nuclear power programm . howev , even if such a multi - part plan could be agre , us offici conced it is like onli attain in the longer term . meanwhil , isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha repeatedli reject the idea of pa control of gaza . the issu is like to be anoth stick point amid an alreadi fractiou relationship with presid biden . some of those familiar with the plan conced it feel ambiti given the lack of breakthrough on a ceasefir agreement , the ongo humanitarian crisi , and becaus ani remain trust between isra and palestinian is shatter . but the us administr hope it can still use the moment to grasp the initi . mr blinken will also travel to israel on friday as part of hi current trip . accord to mr miller , he will discuss with isra leader the hostag negoti and the `` need to ensur the defeat of hama , includ in rafah , in a way that protect the civilian popul `` . presid joe biden ha warn israel that it would be a `` mistak `` to launch an offens in the southern citi of rafah , where more than a million displac civilian are shelter . but on tuesday , mr netanyahu said israel wa `` determin to complet the elimin of [ the hama ] battalion in rafah , and there is no way to do thi without a ground incurs `` . more than 31 , 900 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc the start of the war , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri , which doe not distinguish between civilian and combat . the conflict began when about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag in hama ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , accord to isra talli . on the ground in gaza on wednesday , heavi fight rage around al - shifa hospit as the isra militari ' s oper there continu for a third day . wit told the bbc that tank previous posit around the hospit complex had now move eastward , along al - wahda street . they also report a signific increas in the number of air strike in gaza citi and other northern area . `` the relentless sound of explos can be heard from around al - shifa hospit , '' said osama tawfiq , who live 700m ( 2 , 300ft ) from the complex . `` sinc monday morn , we feel like as if the war ha just begun . '' accord to the wit , the strike target home belong to member of hama who had been assign to serv on so - call `` emerg committe `` in place of the arm group ' s polic forc . among them wa amjad hathat , who wa reportedli kill along with 11 other emerg committe member at the kuwait roundabout in gaza citi on tuesday even while secur the distribut of humanitarian aid . mr tawfiq said that the situat had deterior in hi area , after a period of rel calm that follow the withdraw of isra forc in mid - januari . `` we are not onli endur bomb but also face a loom food crisi . '' `` dure last ramadan , we could break our fast with some food . but now we struggl to find anyth beyond water that smell like sewag and tast like seawat , as well as meagr bread . my children are suffer from hunger . '' a un - back food secur assess ha said 1 . 1 million peopl in gaza are struggl with catastroph hunger and starvat , and that a man - made famin in the north of the territori is immin between now and may . on wednesday morn , the isra militari said it troop had kill approxim 90 gunmen and question 300 suspect dure what it call the `` precis oper `` in and around al - shifa . they first raid the hospit in novemb , when the militari accus it of be a hama `` command and control centr `` - an alleg that hama and hospit offici deni . the militari said the latest oper wa launch on monday becaus `` senior hama terrorist have regroup insid ... and are use it to command attack against israel `` . hama acknowledg a senior command of it intern secur forc wa kill there on monday , but said he wa co - ordin aid deliveri . it said the other peopl kill were patient and displac civilian shelter there . the militari said it wa take measur to avoid harm to civilian and keep the hospit function , but wit told bbc arab ' s gaza today programm that that the situat there wa catastroph and that civilian , includ medic , were crowd in corridor . `` children do not stop cri becaus they are die of hunger and thirst ... and the wound suffer all night long due to the lack of medicin and painkil , '' one displac woman , who ask not to be name , said on tuesday . `` the bulldoz are sweep away the place where we are stay , and shrapnel is fli abov our head everywher , '' she ad . addit report by david gritten in london