as fight and suffer continu in gaza , and violenc grow in the west bank , prospect of the palestinian peopl gain their own state might seem further away than ever . sever european countri are press ahead with formal recognis the exist of a palestinian state , but they will not overcom the realiti that such ambit still face huge obstacl . howev , tuesday ' s action by ireland , spain and norway , announc last week , will put pressur on other countri in europ - includ the uk , franc and germani - to follow them in support palestinian self - determin . “ thi is extrem signific , ” one arab diplomat said . “ it reflect european frustrat with the isra govern ’ s refus to listen . `` and it put pressur on the eu to follow suit . ” but isra minist insist thi will encourag hama and reward terror , further reduc the chanc of a negoti settlement . most countri - about 139 in all - formal recognis a palestinian state . on 10 may , 143 out of 193 member of the unit nation ’ gener assembl vote in favour of a palestinian bid for full un membership , someth that is onli open to state . palestin current ha a kind of enhanc observ statu at the un , which give them a seat but not a vote in the assembl . it is also recognis by variou intern organis includ the arab leagu and the organis of islam cooper . a minor of european countri alreadi recognis a palestinian state . they compris hungari , poland , romania , the czech republ , slovakia , and bulgaria which adopt the posit 1988 ; and other includ sweden and cypru . but mani european nation - and the unit state - say they will recognis a palestinian state onli as part of a long - term polit solut to the conflict in the middl east . thi is often refer to as the `` two - state solut `` where both isra and palestinian agre to have their own state with their own border . european countri and the us differ over when they should recognis a palestinian state . ireland , spain and norway say they are do so now to kick - start a polit process . they argu there will be a sustain solut to the current crisi onli if both side can aim at some kind of polit horizon . these countri are also respond to domest polit pressur to show more support for palestinian . in the past , the posit of mani western countri wa that palestinian statehood should be a prize for a final peac agreement . but lord cameron , the uk foreign secretari , and some other european countri have in recent month shift their posit , say the recognit of palestinian statehood could come earlier , to help drive momentum toward a polit settlement . in februari , french presid emmanuel macron said : “ the recognit of a palestinian state is not a taboo for franc . ” and earlier thi month , franc support palestinian membership of the un in the gener assembl vote . the us ha privat discuss thi issu with european alli , but is more cautiou and want a clearer sens of what the polici would mean in practic . so the key debat behind the scene is about when these holdout countri should recognis a palestinian state : when formal peac talk begin between isra and palestinian , when israel and saudi arabia normalis diplomat relat , when israel fail to undertak certain action , or when the palestinian take certain action . in other word , they want recognit of the state of palestin to be a big moment design to achiev a diplomat outcom . “ it is a big card that western countri have to play , ” one western offici said . “ we don ’ t want to throw it away . ” the problem is that recognis a palestinian state is larg a symbol gestur if it doe not also address the vital concomit question . what should the border be ? where should the capit be locat ? what should both side do first to make it happen ? these are difficult question that have not been agre - or even answer - satisfactorili for decad . as of last week , a few more countri in europ now believ there should be a palestinian state . support will cheer the move , oppon will decri it . the grim realiti for palestinian on the ground is unlik to chang .