mediat and hama have arriv in the egyptian capit , cairo , for talk on a new ceasefir , as israel is report to be demand reassur on the hostag ' fate befor attend . an unnam us offici ha said israel ha `` more or less accept `` the deal . but isra media say hama is refus to confirm which of it hostag are still aliv , so israel will not attend . the us say the six - week paus would see the releas of more isra hostag and palestinian prison . deleg from qatar and the us are also understood to be in egypt . pressur for a deal intensifi after thursday ' s incid outsid gaza citi in the north of the territori where at least 112 peopl were kill as crowd rush an aid convoy . hama ha accus israel of shoot at civilian as they attempt to get food . israel ha deni thi . on sunday , israel defens forc ( idf ) spokesman rear adm daniel hagari said an initi review had been complet `` of the unfortun incid where gazan civilian were trampl to death and injur as they charg to the aid convoy . `` our initi review ha confirm that no strike wa carri out by the idf toward the aid convoy , '' he said . `` sever looter approach our forc and pose an immedi threat to them . '' he said a full investig would be conduct by `` an independ , profession and expert bodi `` of the armi , and updat would be share in the come day . the isra account is disput . bbc verifi spoke to wit , who describ be shot at . dr moham salha , interim hospit manag at al - awda hospit , where mani of the dead and injur were taken , told the bbc : `` al - awda hospit receiv around 176 injur peopl ... 142 of these case are bullet injuri and the rest are from the stamped and broken limb in the upper and lower bodi part . '' hama is report to have said that an agreement on a truce could be reach within the next 24 to 48 hour , with a sourc from the group tell egyptian media a deal depend on israel agre to it demand . egyptian offici , who have been run the talk with qatar , said deleg from both hama and israel were expect to attend the negoti . expect of a deal were rais after a senior us offici said israel for it part had `` basic agre `` a framework for a six - week ceasefir . the israel militari launch a larg - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hama after it gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel on 7 octob and took 253 back to gaza as hostag . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri say at least 30 , 410 peopl , includ 21 , 000 children and women , have been kill in gaza sinc then with some 7 , 000 miss and 71 , 700 injur . call for ceasefir come as aid organis have warn there is a risk of famin in northern gaza . jan egeland , head of the norwegian refuge council , ha just return from a three - day visit to the territori . `` i wa prepar for nightmar , but it is wors , much wors , '' mr egeland told the bbc on sunday . `` peopl want to take your hand ... say ' we are starv , we are die here '. `` i think there is famin in the north , '' he said , ad that there had been no aid for 300 , 000 peopl live in ruin , with israel not allow ani through . after thursday ' s aid convoy incid , the us carri out it first airdrop of humanitarian aid for gaza , with more than 30 , 000 meal parachut in by three militari plane on saturday . elsewher , israel said on sunday it carri out an intens wave of air strike in the southern gaza citi of khan youni . the number of casualti is not known . at least 11 peopl were kill in an isra air strike at a camp for displac peopl in rafah in southern gaza on saturday , accord to hama . world health organ chief tedro adhanom ghebreyesu call the attack `` outrag `` . the isra armi said it had carri out a `` precis strike `` against islam jihad milit in the area .