the un ' s top court , the intern court of justic ( icj ) , issu a rule last week on israel ' s militari offens in rafah . it wa the latest pronounc by the court in a case brought by south africa , which accus israel of a genocid in the gaza strip . israel ha vehement deni the alleg . sinc the case began , the court ha deliv a seri of contest rule . the two most import concern whether or not the court ha suggest there is a risk of genocid in gaza . the second rule - deliv on 24 may - includ hotli disput word over the militari oper in rafah . it is now be intens scrutinis and argu over . in last week ’ s order , the court rule by 13 vote to two that israel should : “ immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part . ” headlin suggest thi wa an order to stop all militari oper in rafah - but some of the judg disagre with what it mean . five of the 15 publish their own view . three had support the order and two had oppos it . judg bogdan aurescu from romania said he vote for the order , but reveal that he thought the court wa be “ unclear ” and underlin that it could not ban israel from take legitim action in self - defenc . judg dire tladi , from south africa , disagre with aurescu , even though they had vote for the same order . he said it told israel “ in explicit term ” to stop it offens in rafah . the two judg who had oppos the order declar that whatev the other had vote in favour of , it wa sure not a demand for israel to begin a unilater ceasefir in rafah . uganda ’ s julia sebutind said the court could not “ micromanag ” a war and israel ’ s aharon barak , temporarili - appoint for the case , said the icj ’ s order wa “ qualifi ” so long as the countri adher to the genocid convent . the summari from germani ’ s judg , georg nolt , is the most reveal to where the court find itself . the order , as he vote for it , ban militari action “ as far as it could endang the right of the palestinian peopl ” to be protect from a risk of genocid . but he stress : “ the court can play onli a limit role in resolv the situat . it must be care not to overstep the limit of what it can and should do . ”