despit a week of tension with israel over it conduct of the gaza war , washington is report to have authoris arm transfer to it alli worth billion of dollar . these includ more than 1 , 800 mk84 2 , 000lb ( 900kg ) bomb and 500 mk82 500lb bomb , as well as 25 f35a fighter jet , the washington post and reuter news agenc have said . the larger bomb have previous been link to air strike in gaza caus mass casualti . washington give $ 3 . 8bn ( £ 3bn ) in annual militari assist to israel . but the latest packag come as the biden administr ha been rais concern about rise civilian death in gaza and humanitarian access to the territori , which the un say is on the verg of famin . the administr ha also said it `` can not support `` an anticip larg - scale isra ground offens in rafah on the egypt border , where there are more than a million displac peopl . the palestinian ministri of foreign affair in ramallah criticis the us for inconsist in it posit . in a post on x , formerli known as twitter , it said : `` demand [ isra prime minist benjamin ] netanyahu to stop kill civilian and suppli him with weapon is an unpreced principl and moral contradict `` . news of the arm transfer emerg on the same day that presid joe biden spoke of `` the path be felt by so mani in the arab - american commun with the war in gaza `` . the arm transfer have also been strongli criticis by some senior member of the presid ' s democrat parti who have been call for us militari aid to be limit or condit on chang in how israel conduct militari oper . the us state depart told the bbc that it wa unabl to confirm potenti or pend us arm transfer befor congress wa formal notifi . quot pentagon and state depart offici , the washington post report that the extra warplan be sent to israel were initi approv as part of a larger packag by congress in 2008 and had been request last year - in advanc of the deadli 7 octob attack by hama which trigger the gaza war . when israel ' s defenc minist yoav gallant went to washington last week , it wa said he had taken a long list of us weapon hi countri want to receiv in an expedit manner . dure the war israel , though itself a major weapon export , ha been heavili reliant on american air defenc and munit . ten of thousand of bomb have been drop on gaza , with militari expert say the aerial campaign ha been one of the most intens and destruct in recent histori . late last year , analysi of bomb crater from satellit imageri drew major us news outlet to conclud that israel had routin use it biggest 2000 - pound ( 900kg ) bomb . the new york time quot explos expert who said that while bomb of that size were use by sever western militari , they were almost never drop by us forc in dens popul area anymor . meet top us offici , mr gallant stress the need to preserv hi countri ' s qualit militari edg in the middl east and prepar for a possibl escal in fight with the power lebanes arm group , hezbollah . he also sought to eas tension with hi countri ' s most import alli , which had sunk to their lowest point of the gaza war after the us abstain from a key un secur council vote on monday . the isra prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , react angrili when thi allow a resolut call for an immedi ceasefir to pass . in the wake of the vote , white hous spokesman john kirbi had reject claim that the us had chang it posit and deni that it wa readi to start condit aid to israel . `` it ' s not about tri to use some sort of power dynam here with our good friend and alli , israel . it ' s about help them defend themselv , '' he told journalist . `` we still have israel ' s back . as you and i are speak , we are still provid tool , capabl , and weapon system so that israel can defend itself against what we agre is still a viabl threat [ from ] hama . '' sinc the new arm transfer were reportedli given the green light , there have been sign that relat between israel and the us have eas . a high - level isra deleg is now expect to travel to washington to discuss possibl altern plan for oper against hama in rafah . the trip had previous been cancel by mr netanyahu in respons to the un secur council ceasefir vote . in anoth step like to be welcom by the us , israel ha also agre to send senior intellig offici back to egypt and qatar for renew talk to tri to releas it hostag as part of a possibl truce deal with hama .