from the first shout of `` firebal `` the crew of hm diamond have just two minut to react . in that time they have to work out whether the missil , travel at more than three time the speed of sound , pose a direct threat to their ship and nearbi merchant vessel . we were the first media on board hm diamond sinc she join the us - led oper to protect merchant ship in the red sea . we wit the threat first - hand as she prepar to run the gauntlet of houthi drone and missil be fire from yemen . the captain of hm diamond say the houthi are now use more advanc and more lethal weapon . cdr pete evan say when the ship first enter the red sea in decemb , one - way attack drone , or uav , were the main threat . but he say the houthi have `` move much more into convent and ballist missil which are harder to defend against and caus much more damag `` . we began our voyag as the crew made the final check to the ship ' s weapon system . it main sea viper missil were alreadi prime , hidden in a silo at the front of the ship - with scorch mark still visibl from previou launch . each missil cost more than â £ 1m ( $ 1 . 3m ) . they are the ship ' s main line of defenc . but diamond also ha phalanx machin gun and 30mm cannon on each side of the ship - close - in weapon . the phalanx can fire more than 3 , 000 round a minut . for the veri first time the crew have also use the 30mm cannon to success shoot down a drone . diamond ' s main task in the red sea ha been to protect merchant ship travel through thi key trade rout . but for thi mission she ' d be escort a naval task forc of uk support ship sail toward the indian ocean - with two us destroy provid addit protect . up on the bridg the navig , lt josh tyri , show the rout we ' d be take - past houthi - control territori in yemen , through the narrow bab al - mandab strait and out into the gulf of aden . they call thi the high threat area - where the houthi have been focus their attack on both merchant ship and coalit warship . `` there ' s a regular drumbeat of drone and missil , so there ' s a good possibl that will happen , '' lt tyri said . by now the entir crew had chang from their blue uniform to fire - resist white overal . we ' d all been issu anti - flash hood and glove to wear in case the ship wa hit . the upper deck were declar out of bound - with dim red light in the ship ' s passageway . photo of iranian - design drone , which might be use against the vessel , are display along the deck . we wait insid the oper room - the ship ' s nerv centr - where the crew stare into row of monitor and screen . with the ship ' s power radar they can track multipl object simultan for hundr of mile . at 20 : 35 came the first blast of a whistl with a shout of `` firebal `` - the code for a detect missil launch . the ship ' s alarm sound to alert the rest of the crew with the word : `` air threat warn red - missil inbound . '' as they track the missil ' s flight path they issu updat . the air threat wa lower from red to yellow and then white . the tension eas and sailor remov their anti - flash hood and glove . it wa the first of four anti - ship ballist missil fire by the houthi that night . lt cdr martyn harri , diamond ' s execut offic , explain they had just two minut to react to launch , with the missil travel at more than three time the speed of sound . `` ye it can feel a bit intens if someon is potenti tri to shoot someth at you , '' he said . diamond ha been target by the houthi in the past - but in thi case the missil did not pose a direct threat . two day later there ' s anoth `` firebal `` warn at 03 : 20 . onc again the alarm is sound , and the crew rush to their posit . thi time too the missil fli out of rang and splash into the sea . hm diamond ha not yet shot down ani houthi missil . but it ha destroy nine houthi drone - seven of them in just one night in januari . silhouett of the nine drone are paint on the side of the ship ' s bridg . diamond is the first royal navi warship to have shot down a threat from the air sinc 1991 . there ' s anoth tens moment on thi escort mission , when they locat a signal from the ground to a number of houthi drone . the uav are fli north of the task group . it ' s a deadli version of hide and seek . but the drone do not appear to spot them , and one is later shot down by a us warship further north . lead hand erin graham know what that ' s like . she wa the ship ' s electron warfar director on duti on 9 januari . she describ it as a `` big swarm attack , which escal veri quickli `` . there were 18 drone in all . six of them were taken out by diamond ' s sea viper missil and one wa shot down by it 30mm cannon , oper remot from the oper room . erin , 22 , said `` you ' ve just got to remain cool , calm and collect and go through the drill `` . diamond ' s captain , cdr pete evan , call it a challeng tempo of oper , in hot and sticki condit . `` the level of concentr [ are ] exhaust , '' he say , with `` long period of noth much happen , and then a few realli short intens spike of your life be at risk `` . the 224 militari personnel on board work mostli on shift of between eight and 12 hour , leav littl time to relax . when they ' re not asleep , most unwind in the gym or watch tv . up in the offic ' wardroom they were play old episod of hornblow , the swashbuckl drama seri set in the napoleon era . there ' s limit wi - fi , but it ' s often switch off when the threat level rise . even in calmer water , in the gulf of aden , the job still isn ' t over . diamond spend sever day track a suspect fish vessel , or dhow . it ' s declar stateless - give a legal justif to search it . but it ha also been fli an iranian flag . the ship ' s small team of royal marin secur the vessel while anoth team conduct the search . they ' re look for weapon or drug , but in the end they find noth illicit . the us ha directli accus iran of suppli weapon to the houthi . but diamond ' s captain is more cautiou . cdr evan acknowledg it ' s like weapon are be smuggl , but he say he doesn ' t want to specul from where . there are hundr of similar small boat sail through the wide expans of the gulf of aden . stem the suppli of weapon may prove even more challeng than stop the houthi attack .