isra offici are increasingli concern that the intern crimin court ( icc ) is plan to seek arrest warrant for their militari and polit leader on suspicion of war crime . report suggest prime minist benjamin netanyahu could be among them . the icc , base in the hagu , ha been investig israel ' s action in the occupi territori for the past three year - and more recent the action of hama as well . it ha the power to charg and tri individu for the most seriou crime under intern law . it ha previous issu arrest warrant for leader includ russia ' s vladimir putin , muammar gaddafi of libya , and ugandan warlord joseph koni . mr netanyahu ha call the prospect of senior israel figur join the want list `` an outrag of histor proport `` , accus the icc of attempt to paralys israel ' s abil to defend itself . but the fact that he ' s chosen to make such strident public comment suggest that , behind the scene , such a scenario is be activ discuss . while the icc ha not confirm the isra claim , when chief prosecutor karim khan kc visit israel and the occupi west bank last decemb hi messag wa a clear one . the british barrist tour the site of hama ' attack in isra villag close to the gaza fenc , which hama - led gunmen burst through on 7 octob . he also met polit leader , and travel to ramallah to speak to the famili of palestinian victim about their experi in gaza and the west bank . he condemn the violenc suffer by civilian on both side , and promis to investig . `` all actor must compli with intern humanitarian law , '' he clarifi in a statement at the time . `` if you do not do so , do not complain when my offic is requir to act . '' mr khan said the 7 octob attack - in which hama - led gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mostli civilian , and seiz 253 hostag , accord to isra talli - repres `` some of the most seriou intern crime that shock the conscienc of human , crime which the icc wa establish to address `` . in israel ' s case , hi concern were twofold . he stress the oblig to conduct it militari oper in gaza accord to `` clear legal paramet that govern arm conflict `` . israel ha been accus of fail to suffici protect civilian dure it month - long bombard , although it insist it take all necessari measur to avoid casualti . the hama - run health ministri in the territori say more than 34 , 500 peopl have been kill there sinc the war began , and that mani of that number are children . mr khan also underlin the need for humanitarian aid to get into gaza , with access to food , water and medic suppli a basic right for civilian `` without further delay , and at pace and at scale `` . he also urg hama not to divert or misus the suppli when they did arriv , after accus by israel that it member were loot truck and steal aid , stop it from reach the wider popul . israel isn ' t a member of the icc and it say the court ha no jurisdict over it . but the court ha rule that sinc 2015 it doe in fact have jurisdict over the west bank , east jerusalem and gaza after the palestinian ratifi it found treati , the rome statut , as the state of palestin . no western - style democraci ha had an icc arrest warrant issu for it leader befor . if it happen to mr netanyahu , he ' ll be the first . isra have particular concern about the stigma and potenti isol that would come with it . michael oren wa israel ' s ambassador to the unit state between 2009 and 2013 . he point to the recent case brought by south africa at the intern court of justic ( icj ) , which accus israel of genocid against the palestinian popul in gaza - an accus israel vehement reject . in januari , the court issu an interim rule that order israel to take step to prevent genocid act in gaza , but stop short of tell it to stop it militari offens . `` israel emerg from those proceed rel unscath , but the fact that the proceed were held at all meant that israel had lost the battl , '' he told the bbc . `` they should not have been held at all , and certainli it ' s a blow to our intern stand and our secur . becaus a countri whose leader are accus of presid over war crime , that countri is more vulner than a countri that isn ' t . '' sir geoffrey nice kc , anoth british barrist , led the prosecut of the former serbian presid slobodan milosev for war crime at the intern crimin tribun for the former yugoslavia ( icti ) . he point out that the action of both side in thi conflict are within the icc ' s focu . `` ani investig will not just be the isra defens forc and polit and militari leadership but also hama , '' he told the bbc . `` it ' s to be hope that alleg hama fighter and leader are not all shot on sight , that they are detain and made avail for trial by an intern tribun . '' he also address suggest that the icc could come under polit pressur to reconsid it decis - make . `` govern around the world , particularli larg and power govern , are there to protect their countri ' s interest . `` so if they see a trial come along , or an investig ... that would caus them as a countri great reput damag , and if they reckon they can interfer with the trial or the investig or trial process to save them from that reput damag , then they ' ll do that , becaus they are act in the interest of their countri . '' the timefram for issu warrant can vari , with week and even month sometim elaps between the point at which the icc prosecutor request it , and judg grant it . sometim the detail can be kept confidenti if it ' s deem that make them public would lessen the prospect of an arrest . such a move against mr netanyahu , hi polit colleagu or isra militari command would have practic implic too . it would affect their abil to travel wide , as rome statut nation are oblig to hand over visit individu with outstand warrant against them . howev , some of those nation have ignor icc warrant in recent year . former isra ambassador michael oren believ the eventu impact would be far wider , chang the narr of isra societi `` gener , it respond to love . it doesn ' t respond to aggress . if you want to get concess out of isra do not hit them over the head , embrac them , '' he said . `` all of these measur tend to move the polit needl in thi countri rightward and not the other way . it would have a boomerang effect , and rather than open pathway to possibl diplomat process it will like constrict it . ''