on sunday morn , 25 - year - old aaron bushnel walk calmli up to the isra embassi in washington , dc and set himself on fire . dress in hi us air forc uniform , mr bushnel said he would `` no longer be complicit in genocid `` . he shout `` free palestin `` as he burn , until he collaps to the ground . hour later , he die in hospit . mr bushnel live - stream hi self - immol , ensur that hi action - which he describ as an `` extrem act of protest `` - were seen far beyond washington . though hi initi video wa remov , the footag wa share wide on social media , and mr bushnel ' s suicid ha prompt vigil in us citi thi week by those campaign against israel ' s militari action in gaza . the death toll there pass 30 , 000 thi week , accord to the hama - run health ministri . other have express concern about the extrem natur of hi protest and fear it could inspir other deadli act . but for mr bushnel ' s friend , hi death ha hit much closer to home . hi self - immol took even those closest to him complet by surpris and they have found themselv caught between the weight of griev a friend and process what he did , while also deal with the sudden spotlight from the world ' s media . those who knew him in san antonio , texa , where mr bushnel live from 2020 to late last year while station at lackland air forc base , said hi death had rippl through a commun of organis and activist like a `` shockwav `` . `` initi , there wa just a lot of shock and sad , that he felt thi wa the onli action that he could do to bring attent to someth that he care heavili about , '' mason escamilla , who knew mr bushnel , told the bbc on friday befor a public vigil held in a san antonio park . `` it ' s hard that he chose these action , it ' s hard to comprehend even from peopl who sympathis with a ceasefir and the safeti of palestinian peopl and civilian , '' mr escamilla , 25 , said . at least 200 peopl attend the vigil , includ mani local palestinian . one by one , mr bushnel ' s friend took to the microphon to rememb and mourn him . befor sunday , mr escamila said he knew mr bushnel as `` normal , quiet , friendli , quirki guy , '' who drank root beer , embrac leftist polit , and volunt with group who help peopl experienc homeless . the airman had a cat name sugar and like the lord of the ring , he said . moon , a friend of mr bushnel ' s who ask to be identifi onli by hi first name , met him through volunt work and describ him as `` incred strong will `` . the video of hi final moment , he said , `` wa veri tough to see . '' sara masoud , a 32 - year - old palestinian organis who attend the vigil , said learn the news of hi death `` wa realli devast . '' but the shock act ha prompt discuss among activist who feel `` a sens of relat to the futil that drove hi action `` , she said . mr bushnel had describ himself as an anarchist , onc write that he `` believ in the abolit of all hierarch power structur `` through legal mean . while base in san antonio with the air forc , he wa also activ in number of commun and mutual aid group and gravit especi toward help the homeless , hi friend said . in initi volunt outing , deliv suppli like first aid and cloth , mr bushnel wa `` a littl shi `` , mr escamilla recal , but said he soon learn to engag close with the peopl he help . mr escamilla believ mr bushnel felt a tension between hi militari servic and hi polit belief . he wa still in the militari when the israel - gaza war erupt in octob last year . some 1 , 200 peopl were kill after hama gunmen attack commun in southern israel . they took around 250 hostag back into the gaza strip , with mani still aliv and be held there . about 1 . 8 million palestinian have been displac sinc israel launch retaliatori militari action , which it say is aim at destroy hama . while mr bushnel had strong pro - palestinian view and engag with local activist group , no - one expect that he would end hi life in a protest against the war in gaza . aaron bushnel grew up in orlean , massachusett , in a tightli cloister religi commun known as the commun of jesu , accord to hi friend . a childhood friend , ashley schuman , told the new york time he had told her he left the commun in 2019 . mr escamilla said that mr bushnel wa no longer involv in the commun of jesu and had distanc himself from hi famili . some former member of the commun of jesu alleg psycholog abus in a 2021 abc news investig . mr bushnel ' s parent , the commun of jesu , and a former employ in the commun declin to comment to the bbc . in hi youth , mr bushnel belong to a competit perform group call spirit winter percuss . a group photo from six year ago on hi facebook page show the young perform wear colour uniform and larg grin . `` back then he didn ' t realli talk about much besid sport , music , etc , '' brian spencer , who wa in the percuss group with mr bushnel , told the bbc . `` but he wa a good dude and would alway lend a help hand when need . '' mr bushnel enter activ servic on 5 may , 2020 , accord the air forc . hi most recent role wa in cyber defenc oper . friend say he left san antonio late last year , and he wa live in ohio befor hi death . on hi linkedin page , mr bushnel wrote he wa seek opportun in the us militari ' s skillbridg program , which allow militari personnel to transit into civilian job after their servic end . he wa still in the air forc at the time of hi death . `` we extend our deepest sympathi to the famili and friend of senior airman bushnel , '' us air forc col . celina noy said in a statement . at friday ' s vigil , there wa an emphasi on rememb the airman as hi friend knew him and the caus he believ in , rather than how the world had come to learn hi name . befor she began her speech on friday , a woman who volunt with mr bushnel told the crowd : `` you ' re go to hear a lot of sad thing . but you ' re also go to hear a lot of realli good thing . `` becaus thi final , fieri moment wa not the sum of hi life . ''