in a classroom - turn - bedroom at a un school in nuseirat refuge camp in central gaza , palestinian children clamber through rubbl and blood - stain mattress . just hour earlier , at least 35 peopl were kill and mani more wound at the site in an isra militari strike earli in the morn , accord to the head of the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa . “ i saw piec of iron fli and everyth fall down . what happen to us is unimagin , ” said naim al - dadah from gaza citi , one of hundr of displac peopl shelter there . israel ’ s militari say it carri out a “ precis , intellig - base strike ” to target between 20 to 30 hama and islam jihad fighter who were use the school as a stage ground to plan and launch attack . howev , 14 children and nine women were among those kill , the hama - run govern media offic say . earlier , medic report similar number to a local journalist work with the bbc . dure the war , israel ha repeatedli accus hama of hide it oper in school , hospit , and other build , use civilian as human shield – charg the arm group deni . “ all of the red line have been cross , ” said mr al - dadah , suggest that be in a un institut had given hi famili no protect . he ad : “ the world treat us with doubl standard . israel ha violat all intern law . ” israel ha face grow diplomat isol over it conduct of the war , with case against it befor two intern court , but insist it ha act within the law of arm conflict as it tri to counter what it see as an existenti threat from hama . on a call with journalist , the israel defens forc ( idf ) spokesman lt col peter lerner said that some of the palestinian arm fighter base in the nuseirat school had been involv in the 7 octob attack , which kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel and trigger the war in gaza . no evid wa immedi given . col lerner suggest that hama and islam jihad oper would have “ felt rel safe ” at the build , becaus it belong to the un . the idf publish a photo of the school with classroom on the first and second floor mark to show the locat it said were target by warplan . to an unusu extent in thi case , the isra militari ha stress that it took step to reduc the risk of harm civilian . “ we actual call off the strike twice , ” lt col lerner said . the overnight attack wa the latest case of mass casualti among palestinian tri to find safeti as israel expand it offens in the gaza strip . some of those stay at the un school said that they came from northern gaza – but had heed isra militari evacu order and head south in the earli stage of the war – onli to be displac in the past month from rafah , on the egyptian border . thi week , the idf announc a new ground and air assault in central gaza , target what it said were hama fighter who had regroup there . it forc have repeatedli return to part of the palestinian territori which they previous withdrew from . in a courtyard of the un school , more than 20 corps were line up in bodi bag and blanket . a journalist work with the bbc film sever women cradl the head and hand of their dead son . “ it wa a veri harsh night , ” say ibrahim lulu , a teenag who said hi cousin , moham wa kill . “ my brother , friend and i were sit togeth when suddenli there wa an explos . the mattress protect me becaus i wa sit against the wall . all the bodi were dismemb and torn . ” resid said the part of the school target wa be use as a shelter for men and boy , with women and girl sleep in a separ section . part of the school had previous been target by an isra strike in mid - may with the idf then say it wa be use as a “ hama war room ” . overnight , casualti were rush from nuseirat to the al - aqsa martyr ’ hospit in nearbi deir al - balah . in recent day it ha been struggl to treat hundr of wound peopl follow intens isra bombard and shell in the surround area . the hospit had earlier report an electr gener failur say that thi would make it harder to treat patient . on wednesday , medic from doctor without border ( msf ) which is support the hospit describ chaotic scene there . it said that in the previou 24 hour , at least 70 dead peopl had been brought in , and more than 300 wound , mostli women and children .