israel say it ha approv the open of two humanitarian rout into gaza , to allow more aid into the territori . the erez gate in northern gaza will be temporarili re - open for the first time sinc the start of the war and ashdod port will also be open for humanitarian deliveri . more aid from jordan will be allow to enter via the kerem shalom cross . it come hour after joe biden spoke with israel ' s pm for the first time sinc seven aid worker were kill . accord to a readout of a phone call between the us presid and benjamin netanyahu , mr biden warn that israel must take step to prevent civilian harm and humanitarian suffer if it want to maintain us support . it is understood that the re - open of the corridor wa specif request by mr biden in the phone call . mr biden essenti gave the isra govern an ultimatum - take concret step to prevent civilian harm and ensur safeti for aid worker or us polici in respect of gaza would chang . thi wa a signific shift in us polici - the first time that washington ha attempt to leverag american aid in order to influenc the conduct of the war in gaza . seven peopl work for the food aid chariti world central kitchen ( wck ) were kill in an isra strike in gaza on monday . the wck convoy they were travel in wa hit by an isra air strike as it travel south along the isra - design coastal aid rout , just after they had unload more than 100 tonn of food from a barg at a warehous in deir al - balah . the vehicl were around 2 . 5km ( 1 . 5 mile ) apart and all three were hit dure the attack . israel ' s militari apologis and call the attack a tragic mistak . it ha promis a full investig . the us nation secur council said it welcom the step announc by israel , which it said `` must now be fulli and rapidli implement `` . us polici , it ad , would be determin by the step israel took to protect `` innoc civilian and the safeti of aid worker `` . on thursday , us secretari of state antoni blinken said there would be a chang of us polici if it did not see chang from israel . the move to open israel ' s northern border cross with gaza in erez is particularli signific , after israel ' s foreign minist eli cohen told isra media in novemb that there would be `` no more contact between israel and gaza `` . in anoth develop , former us presid donald trump said israel should get it war in gaza `` over with `` in order to achiev peac and `` stop kill peopl `` . mr trump - a staunch alli of israel - made the comment in a radio interview . he said that israel wa `` absolut lose the pr war `` and should stop broadcast video footag of it air strike in gaza . but he ad that israel had to finish what it had start . mr trump , who is expect to be the republican parti ' s candid in novemb ' s presidenti elect , ha previous criticis joe biden for be insuffici support of israel . mr netanyahu ha face rise intern and domest anger at israel ' s conduct in gaza . a long line of lorri fill with aid ha been back up on the egyptian side of the border with rafah for month as they can onli enter gaza after a complex and bureaucrat seri of isra check . the absenc of adequ humanitarian suppli ha forc jordan , the us and uk to drop aid from the air - the least effect way to deliv humanitarian suppli . air drop have also prove danger - palestinian have been crush when parachut fail and have drown as they tri to swim to pallet that have land in the sea . a recent un - back report offer evid that the humanitarian catastroph in gaza wa turn into a man - made famin . and the un ' s most senior human right offici , volker türk , recent told the bbc that there wa a `` plausibl `` case that israel wa use starvat as a weapon of war in gaza . israel deni imped the entri of aid or it distribut insid gaza , and blame un agenc on the ground for fail to get the aid that is allow in to the peopl who need it . more than 196 aid worker have been kill in gaza sinc octob , accord to the us - fund aid worker secur databas , which record major incid of violenc against aid personnel . not all were kill while deliv aid . on thursday gp wa block across swath of israel in order to disrupt missil and drone , as tension rose with iran . reservist have been call up to bolster air defenc unit and the israel defens forc also announc it wa halt all leav for soldier serv with combat unit . iran ha vow to respond after a strike it believ israel carri out on it consul build in syria on monday kill 13 peopl , includ a senior gener . much of the gaza strip ha been devast dure the isra militari oper that began after hama - led gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 33 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say .