for the first time ever , iran ha carri out strike against isra territori . in the middl of saturday night , air raid alert went off in israel . resid were urg to seek shelter , while explos were heard as air defenc were activ . intercept lit up the night sky in sever place across the countri , with mani drone and missil shot down by israel and it alli befor they reach isra territori . there is even thought to be at least one case of a ballist missil be shot down outsid the earth ' s atmospher . at least nine countri were involv in the militari escal - with projectil fire from iran , iraq , syria and yemen and down by israel , the us , the uk and jordan . here ' s what we know about what wa fire at israel and what wa intercept . iran launch more than 300 drone and missil toward israel , the isra militari said on sunday . the attack includ 170 drone and 30 cruis missil , none of which enter isra territori , and at least 110 ballist missil , of which a small number reach israel , militari spokesman rear adm daniel hagari said in a televis statement . the bbc ha not independ verifi those figur . the shortest distanc from iran to israel is about 1 , 000km ( 620 mile ) across iraq , syria and jordan . on saturday night , iran ' s revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) said it had launch drone and missil . iraqi secur sourc told reuter that projectil were seen fli over iraq in the direct of israel . the irgc said ballist missil were fire almost an hour after the slower - move drone , so that they would strike israel at roughli the same time . the us defenc depart said us forc intercept dozen of missil and drone launch from iran , iraq , syria and yemen . the iran - back hezbollah group in lebanon also said it had fire two barrag of rocket at an isra militari base in the occupi golan height , a plateau which israel ha annex from syria , in a move not recognis by most of the intern commun . some 99 % of the incom barrag wa intercept either outsid isra airspac or over the countri itself , rear adm hagari said . they includ all the drone and cruis missil , which follow a flat trajectori , and most of the ballist missil , which are fire on an arc trajectori that use graviti to reach veri high speed . sinc most of the projectil came from rel far away , israel wa abl to send f - 35 stealth fighter to intercept them . the idf said that 25 of the 30 cruis missil sent by iran were shot down outsid the countri . for anyth that got past thi first line of defenc , israel use it aerial defens array - the three - tier umbrella of missil defenc system in place sinc 7 octob - appar to good effect . the highest tier is arrow , use to physic intercept long - rang projectil . it is thought that arrow dealt with most of the ballist missil aim at israel . dramat footag which appear to show one of these missil be shot down outsid the earth ' s atmospher suggest that arrow 3 - the most advanc of these system , use exoatmospher hyperson anti - ballist missil - wa employ . the next element in the tier , david ' s sling , would have been use to protect against short - rang ballist missil , cruis missil and drone , take them out as far as 300km ( 186 mile ) away . final , the iron dome system - which is design to intercept unguid rocket head for residenti area - ha recent been upgrad to deal with the threat from drone . howev , the isra militari said that none of the 170 drone fire by iran and it proxi reach isra airspac . us presid joe biden said us forc `` help israel take down nearli all `` drone and missil launch by iran on sunday . in a statement , he said the us had move aircraft and warship to the region befor the unpreced attack . two aircraft and two destroy were involv in intercept the barrag . the destroy deploy the aegi missil defenc system to shoot down at least three ballist missil , accord to cnn . us central command ( centcom ) said it forc had destroy more than 80 drone and at least six ballist missil . among these were a ballist missil on it launcher vehicl and seven drone , which were destroy on the ground in houthi - control area of yemen befor they were launch . oper from undisclos base in the region , us forc shot down a number of iranian drone over southern syria near the border with jordan , secur sourc told reuter . howev , former isra nation secur council head giora eiland told the financi time that the biggest us contribut to the defens oper wa intellig , which he describ as `` extrem precis `` . and he said that a complex command and control system set up between the us , israel and arab neighbour more than four year ago had been effect in detect and deal with the threat . uk prime minist rishi sunak ha confirm that uk raf typhoon jet also shot down a number of iranian attack drone . mr sunak said the iranian attack wa a `` danger and unnecessari escal which i ' ve condemn in strongest term `` . jordan - which ha a peac treati with israel , but ha been highli critic of the way it ha carri out it war against the palestinian group hama in gaza - also intercept fli object that enter it airspac to secur the safeti of it citizen , a jordanian cabinet statement said . mr eiland said jordan had advanc radar system and air - to - air missil , ad that it f - 16 pilot had shown that they could oper effect at night . franc help to patrol airspac , but it wa unclear if it had shot down ani drone or missil , the isra militari said . in jerusalem , bbc correspond report hear siren and see israel ' s missil defenc system in oper . a few of the ballist missil got through and struck isra territori , rear adm hagari said . one of them `` lightli hit `` the nevatim air forc base in the negev desert in southern israel . rear adm hagari said the base wa `` still function `` . two us offici told the bbc ' s us partner cb news that five ballist missil evad air defenc and impact on isra territori . four land in the base - where the countri ' s f - 35 fighter jet are base - which the offici said wa iran ' s primari target . one missil hit a runway , anoth hit an empti aircraft hangar and one hit a hangar that wa out of use . a fifth ballist missil seem to be aim at a radar site in northern israel , but miss it target . of the 120 ballist missil fire by iran , about half of them fail on launch or crash mid - flight , one of the offici told cb . iran ' s offici irna news agenc said the attack had dealt `` heavi blow `` to the air base . a seven - year - old girl wa sever injur by shrapnel , rear adm hagari said . the girl from a bedouin arab commun near the southern town of arad , wa report to have been injur after an iranian drone wa intercept overhead . she wa place in intens care . jordan also said that some shrapnel had fallen on it territori `` without caus ani signific damag or ani injuri to citizen `` . israel ' s channel 12 tv cite an unnam isra offici as say there would be a `` signific respons `` to the attack . the countri ' s war cabinet is due to meet again on monday to discuss option . isra airspac ha been reopen , as ha that of neighbour countri , but defenc minist yoav gallant said the confront with iran wa `` not over yet `` . meanwhil , iran ha warn israel it respons `` will be much larger than tonight ' s militari action if israel retali against iran `` , arm forc chief of staff maj gen mohammad bagheri told state tv . he said us base would also be attack if the us took part in ani isra retali . irgc command hossein salami also said tehran would retali against ani isra attack on it interest , offici or citizen . but foreign ministri spokesman nasser kanani said iran ' s strike were a limit act of self - defenc and said western countri should appreci tehran ' s `` restraint `` . at an emerg meet of the un secur council on sunday , secretari - gener antonio guterr call on both side to `` defus and de - escal `` , as the region wa on the brink of war . g7 leader meet by video confer on sunday call for restraint and condemn iran ' s attack . addit report by robert greenal