a militari base in iraq hous a pro - iranian militia ha been damag in an explos , kill one and wound eight , secur offici there have said . iraq ' s militari report no drone or fighter jet in the area befor or dure the blast . but the militia organis involv , the popular mobilis forc ( pmf ) , blame an attack . it come amid heighten tension between israel and iran . the pmf is an umbrella organis that contain sever pro - iranian militia that are part of the network of proxi that tehran ha been abl to use to advanc it interest across the middl east for year . those militia have attack us personnel and interest in iraq on a number of occas in the past , with the aim of tri to forc the remain us troop to leav the countri . the us ha regularli struck back at the militia . the pentagon ha , howev , move swiftli to deni ani involv in thi incid . it come as the long - run confront between israel and iran ha recent move into a new , more peril phase , amid tension heighten by the war in gaza . in contrast to the shadow war they have been engag in for mani year , both countri appear to have directli attack each other ' s territori . there wa a presum isra strike carri out near the iranian citi of isfahan earli on friday morn . the attack wa an appar respons to a major drone and missil barrag that tehran launch on israel six day earlier . the iranian action wa in retali for an earlier strike on senior iranian militari command in the syrian capit damascu - wide believ to have been carri out by israel . while the conflict still seem contain to some extent for now , the iranian foreign minist ha warn that iran will deliv an immedi and `` maximum `` respons if israel launch signific attack on it interest . the explos at kalso militari base , about 50km ( 30 mile ) south of baghdad , happen earli on saturday morn , the militari said . a member of the pmf wa kill in the blast and eight other were wound . in a statement , the pmf said it chief of staff abdul aziz al - mohammedawi had visit the base to review what investig had found so far . the iraqi militari also said it wa investig the caus of the explos and fire at the base . `` the air defenc command report confirm , through technic effort and radar detect , that there wa no drone or fighter jet in the air space of babil befor and dure the explos , '' a statement read . the us militari ' s central command deni what it said were report the us had carri out air strike in iraq in a post on x , formerli known as twitter .