israel say it is build a new land cross into northern gaza , where starvat is most acut , after previous promis to open the erez cross . the new cross would handl up to 50 aid truck a day and the first truck have alreadi cross it , isra offici say . israel ha also said it will allow the ashdod deep water port a short distanc to the north to be use as well as allow more aid from jordan to enter via the kerem shalom cross in southern gaza . on wednesday , 10 april , isra defenc minist yoav gallant spoke of gradual increas gaza aid deliveri to pre - war level of 500 truck a day . the number of truck enter gaza rose and then fell back over the cours of the week , with just 147 truck enter gaza on thursday . it follow the isra militari ' s kill of seven aid worker on 1 april , which prompt the us to tell israel to prevent civilian harm and humanitarian suffer if it want to maintain us support . israel impos a sieg on gaza after hama attack nearbi isra commun , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mostli civilian , and take about 250 to gaza as hostag . it ha hit gaza with an aerial and ground campaign that ha kill more than 33 , 000 peopl , mostli civilian accord to the hama - run health author . isra author have sinc allow some aid in , but the un and aid agenc say some children have die from malnutrit . on wednesday usaid administr samantha power said part of gaza were alreadi under famin condit . the number of truck carri food and other aid enter gaza increas - but ha sinc decreas again . on 8 april , 419 aid truck went in , accord to the isra author , includ 330 truck carri food - more than doubl the averag 140 food truck a day in march . howev , un offici told the bbc the 8 april figur wa in fact 223 , less than half the daili number it say is requir as a minimum to stem the crisi . un offici have told the bbc that the discrep is becaus isra screen requir mean truck are often onli half full . after border check , good are move onto a new set of vet truck to travel on into gaza , which are fill nearer to capac . on friday cogat , the isra bodi that coordin govern activ in the occupi territori , said just 147 truck contain aid enter gaza , while 208 includ just 112 contain food were distribut insid gaza . they includ an undisclos number of food truck that enter through the new border cross to northern gaza , which isra media report wa near the zikim kibbutz , to the west of the erez cross . the isra militari said the truck had been accompani by israel defens forc ( idf ) soldier . on friday philip lazzarini , head of the un ' s palestinian refuge agenc , unrwa , said the increas in aid wa `` not yet tangibl , sustain or uninterrupt `` . humanitarian agenc , israel ' s alli and other countri have accus israel of not do enough to ensur that food get to those who need it . some have accus israel of use starvat as a weapon of war . all aid for gaza is subject to strict isra secur check aim at prevent anyth that could be use by hama from enter . but aid group say these are complex and arbitrari , caus major delay . israel ha deni imped the entri of aid to gaza and accus aid organis of fail to distribut it . on thursday cogat said the content of hundr of aid truck wa wait to be pick up insid gaza and said : `` un , do your job . the bottleneck are not on the isra side . '' as condit have deterior , the deliveri of aid insid gaza ha also been accompani by deadli violenc . in one incid , the isra militari kill seven aid worker work for world central kitchen ( wck ) , a chariti that israel wa work with to distribut aid come in by boat from cypru . israel apologis and took action against the unit involv . there have been regular report of shoot at palestinian gather to receiv the littl aid that ha arriv in northern gaza . the hama - run ministri of health in gaza and local palestinian have accus isra forc of fire on desper peopl . in the bloodiest incid , more than 100 peopl were kill on 29 februari when a convoy arriv at al - rashid street in gaza citi . israel ha deni involv in the death , say palestinian have die in crush , been run over by truck and been shot by arm palestinian , and that when isra troop have open fire it ha been at peopl they have deem `` suspect `` . israel ha ban unrwa from deliv aid to northern gaza over alleg it made that some unrwa staff took part in the 7 octob hama attack . cogat said israel would work with organis that `` are not involv in terror `` . the crisi group think tank ha describ israel ' s approach to aid distribut as a `` fiasco `` , accus it of `` fail to coordin militari with humanitarian action `` . it also said israel wa attempt to work around the intern aid system and instead use aid convoy as a way of tri to build a network of player to administ gaza after the war . `` it direct aid to big famili who agre to embrac it agenda , while target those who refus , '' the think tank said . the un ' s most senior human right offici , volker tã¼rk , said in a bbc interview recent that israel bore signific blame , and that there wa a `` plausibl `` case that israel wa use starvat as a weapon of war in gaza . mr tã¼rk , who is the un high commission for human right , said that if intent wa proven , that would amount to a war crime . israel ' s economi minist nir barkat dismiss mr tã¼rk ' s warn as `` total nonsens - a total irrespons thing to say `` . ashdod port , 32km ( 20 mile ) north of gaza , is one of israel ' s three main cargo port and can handl more than 1 . 5 million contain a year . howev , there have been no report of aid shipment for gaza be receiv at ashdod . on wednesday israel ' s channel 12 report that no prepar had been made to open ashdod to humanitarian shipment . becaus not enough aid ha been get into gaza by land , countri have been tri altern rout via the sky and sea - but these too have been beset by problem . of the two scheme to get food and other aid into gaza by sea , onli one ha begun oper and it ha now been paus after the isra militari attack wck , the aid agenc that wa unload and distribut the aid from a jetti it had construct from rubbl . last month , the first vessel to reach gaza under the scheme arriv from cypru - the nearest eu countri to gaza - tow a barg carri about 200 tonn of food provid by wck . by late march , wck boss josã © andrã © s said that 67 wck kitchen were oper in gaza , feed 350 , 000 peopl a day . meanwhil , a separ us militari plan is in train , with a us navi ship on it way carri materi to build a float dock and pier , to enabl suppli on far larger cargo ship to get ashor . accord to the us defenc depart , it will mean two million meal a day could enter gaza . but it is not expect to be readi for month . the us , jordan , egypt , franc , the netherland and belgium are among the countri to have drop aid into gaza , but aid group say the techniqu is a last resort that can ' t on it own meet the need . at least 20 palestinian are report to have been kill dure air drop - five when a parachut on an aid packag fail to open and the crate fell on peopl wait below , and the other when aid packag fell in the sea and desper peopl drown while tri to retriev them . air forc such as the uk ' s raf normal drop aid at an altitud as low as 400ft ( 120m ) , but the isra have stipul they must do so no lower than 2 , 000ft ( 610m ) . that mean the parachut have a long time to get blown off cours by the wind and is whi some airdrop in recent week have land in the sea . a c - 130 transport plane can carri 21 ton of aid - about the same quantiti as can be carri by a singl truck . there is also no way of organis the distribut on the ground . the first aid drop by the us on 3 march , carri out jointli with jordan , contain enough food for more than 38 , 000 meal . on 11 april , us central command , or centcom , said the us had drop 855 ton of humanitarian assist in total .