the isra troop withdraw from gaza announc on sunday wa greet with widespread surpris , even as the isra armi and govern have been at pain to stress that it ha no great signific . but to a world that ha watch the intens of israel ' s bombard , the idea that there wa now just one brigad left in the entir enclav seem to signifi some major shift in the war . and then there wa the time of the announc - on the veri day that mark the grim mileston of six month sinc the hama - led assault on israel ignit thi latest and bloodiest phase in the conflict between israel and the palestinian . `` don ' t read too much into it , '' a spokesperson for the isra prime minist ' s offic told journalist the next day . avi hyman stress how small the distanc involv are and that the israel defens forc ( idf ) would therefor continu to be abl to take whatev action it deem necessari , with or without troop station insid gaza . as if to prove the point - just hour later , the isra armi said it `` elimin `` a senior hama oper , hatem al - ghamri , in an air strike . the isra media ha , howev , respond veri differ . in the wide read and right - wing israel hayom , the paper ' s diplomat correspond ariel kahana tie the troop withdraw to pressur on the isra govern to agre a ceasefir deal with hama in the latest round of talk . `` the formal reason offer by isra spokesperson for halt the war were oper in natur , but everi intellig person can see that the time is hardli coincident . ahead of critic talk , the isra capitul wa design - without say so explicitli - to signal to hama that israel wa be veri forthcom with it from it perspect . '' ben caspit in the more centrist maariv newspap wa even more forc in hi interpret of the move . `` if you were to ask netanyahu ( and he wa ask ) , thi wa done to prepar for the promis oper in rafah … there is a second explan , one that ha been report all over the world in everi possibl languag . by that account , the 98th divis ' s withdraw from khan yuni is link to talk for a hostag deal . `` seriou media outlet around the world have report that the convers between presid biden and prime minist netanyahu wa dramat . biden led netanyahu to understand that he wasn ' t a pace away from victori , but a pace away from the final destruct of the allianc between israel and the unit state . '' in public at least , mr netanyahu ha continu to ratchet up the rhetor on rafah , say that a date ha been set for the oper . hi defenc minist , yoav gallant , ha been more nuanc , tell armi recruit that now is an `` opportun `` time to do a deal with hama . but he stress that a ceasefir would not be the end of the war : `` there will be difficult decis and we will be readi to pay the price in order to get the hostag back , and then return to fight . '' the fight is like to continu , as mr gallant say , but the form it take may chang substanti . with critic of the way the war ha been conduct grow from israel ' s most power alli , the us , the draw down of forc in gaza seem like in part to be aim at show the biden administr that israel is listen to it concern over civilian casualti and life - threaten aid shortag . an end to bombard that have reduc citi to rubbl , as ha been seen in the latest imag from khan youni , may go some way to restor the customari whole - heart support for israel from washington . but that will undoubtedli be test again , if the `` futur oper `` that the isra armi say troop are be given rest and recuper to prepar for mean a full - scale assault on rafah where israel believ hama ' s remain militari forc are now base , among more than a million displac palestinian . there may be a belief in the isra govern and militari that a signific number of that popul , squeez into bare function shelter , may start move back to their home now that the bulk of isra troop is gone . but what palestinian have found on their return to khan youni is mass devast , with mani of their home reduc to rubbl . they have describ how gaza ' s second citi is now unliv , not even fit for anim , as some have put it . meanwhil , the head of the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa , warn palestinian think of head to khan youni about the threat of unexplod munit there follow the isra pullout . philipp lazzarini told the bbc there might be thousand of the devic in the rubbl . so a major exodu from rafah , which would make ani isra oper against hama less like to caus a new catastroph toll of civilian casualti , may not be on the card . but the `` further oper `` may also relat to the conflict on israel ' s northern front with hezbollah in lebanon . that confront ha been steadili escal sinc 7 octob . and there are fear that it could becom far more intens , follow the suspect isra strike in damascu that kill sever senior command in iran ' s power revolutionari guard last week . hezbollah is close alli to iran and ha match the rhetor come from tehran , vow reveng . the isra armi ha recent said that it ha substanti strengthen it northern command . so , thi too may have play a part in the troop withdraw from gaza . whatev the true motiv were - and they are like to have involv a number of interlock factor - it is unlik that israel ' s militari engag in gaza is anywher close to come to an end , with hama fighter alreadi have shown their capac to regroup in area that had been subject to the heaviest onslaught from the idf .