the day after might sound like the titl of a film or a novel . but for diplomat and policymak , the phrase ha onli one mean and that is what happen ' the day after ' the fight stop in gaza . given the intens of the conflict and the absenc of hope , such think might seem surpris , even wish . yet there is an increas focu on what could and should happen if and when the gun fall silent in gaza . eu foreign minist will discuss exactli thi in brussel on monday when they hold talk with counterpart from jordan , egypt , qatar , saudi arabia and the uae , along with the secretari - gener of the arab leagu . across the middl east and among western countri , convers are take place and plan are be drawn up . mani are awar the window of opportun befor the us elect in novemb is close . despit all thi , howev , there seem littl agreement about what should happen and when . for the three european nation which will formal recognis the state of palestin thi week - norway , spain and ireland - the focu is to reviv discuss about a two - state solut , which for year ha been littl more than a slogan to which politician pay lip servic . they hope talk of a polit `` day after `` will open a way toward a ceasefir and the releas of hostag . `` the onli pathway to peac is polit , '' said ireland ' s taoiseach simon harri . for british minist , the focu is how best to support the palestinian author ( pa ) so it could potenti help govern post - war gaza . the foreign secretari , lord cameron , told the hous of lord thi week that he wa push israel to stop withhold money from the pa . not onli is israel deni the pa tax revenu , far - right financ minist belazel smotrich is also threaten to cut palestinian bank off from their isra counterpart . lord cameron said he had told the isra govern : `` you may not think the palestinian author is ideal . you may think that it fail in mani respect . but you need to find a partner that is not hama that you can work with in gaza and the west bank , and that partner should be the new technocrat govern run by the palestinian author . '' uk treasuri offici are understood to be prepar new form of financi and technic support for the pa . but there are also some within govern who are push for the uk to be more explicit about it own thought for how a palestinian state would be creat . `` you can ' t support a two - state solut and not talk about recognit , '' one senior and well - place sourc told me . `` what we lack is a timelin . we agre the start point : stop the war . and we agre on the creation of a palestinian state . but there ' s no definit of an irrevers path toward it . we have got to get into that space , otherwis we will be deal with thi for the next 70 year . '' then there are voic from within israel . defenc minist yoav gallant ha issu a passion denunci of benjamin netanyahu ' s refus to set out a post - war plan . `` the ' day after hama ' will onli be achiev with palestinian entiti take control of gaza , accompani by intern actor , establish a govern altern to hama rule , '' he said . fellow war cabinet member benni gantz ha gone a step further , threaten to resign from the govern unless mr netanyahu agre a six - point plan by 8 june . that includ a demilitaris gaza and the establish of a joint us , european , arab and palestinian administr . the focu of these two former gener is more militari than polit . they fear - and wish to avoid - the isra defens forc ( idf ) run gaza in the long run , which mr gallant said would be a `` danger cours `` for which israel would pay a heavi price in `` bloodsh and victim `` . the unit state share thi view . `` it is imper not onli that the conflict in gaza end as soon as possibl , but that israel come forward with a clear plan for how gaza is go to be govern , secur , redevelop , '' secretari of state antoni blinken told a senat committe hear thi week . without that , he said , israel would face unaccept option : long - term militari occup and insurg , the return of hama , or anarchi and lawless . `` we believ that palestinian must be govern by themselv , '' he said . the us is also put pressur on arab state to agre an intern forc that could establish secur in gaza in the short term . the us would not put it own troop on the ground but want countri includ egypt , jordan , morocco , bahrain and the uae to do so instead . but diplomat say these countri have made clear they would take part onli if the west recognis the state of palestin , there wa an agre pathway to a two - state solut , and they came at the invit of some kind of palestinian leadership . `` ' the day after ' can not be separ from the polit process , it must be part of a comprehens packag , '' one arab diplomat told me . `` no - one will put one foot on the ground unless there is a polit process . '' some arab state feel the us ha been too focus on tri to secur a deal to normalis diplomat relat between israel and saudi arabia . they accept thi may be key to get israel ' s agreement to a wider polit settlement , but suspect it is seen too much as a `` silver bullet `` by some us offici . they also think the us need to think harder about `` the day after `` for israel , engag more close with moder voic who could win popular support for a palestinian - govern gaza . there is discuss , too , about what role turkey could play , use it leverag over hama to agre some kind of post - war deal . ultim the key obstacl to ani agreement is benjamin netanyahu . he refus to discuss it apart from categor oppos ani role for the palestinian author . he fear upset hard - right member of hi govern who favour long - term isra occup . but pressur is rise on the prime minist , and one day he may have to choos . `` the risk is that there is no ' day after ' , '' said one western diplomat . `` israel could do rafah , hama would still be there , there could be anoth rafah . the militari campaign could go on for month . ''