eight isra soldier were kill in a blast in southern gaza on saturday , israel ’ s militari said , the deadliest incid for the armi in the war sinc januari . the soldier were in an armour vehicl that wa hit by a major explos that , accord to a preliminari investig , deton explos “ engin materi ” , the armi said . the incid happen dure an oper in the tal al - sultan neighbourhood of rafah , which ha been a key target for isra forc in recent week . earlier , the arm wing of hama said it had fire a rocket toward an armour vehicl after set up an ambush . the soldier were return from an overnight oper in rafah ' s tal al - sultan neighbourhood at around 05 : 15 local time ( 03 : 15 bst ) when their armour vehicl is understood to have explod . isra media report that isra forc had kill 50 fighter in that oper , and gaza ' s hama - run health ministri said 30 palestinian have been kill in the past day . in a statement on x , the isra defens forc ( idf ) identifi 23 - year - old captain wassem mahmoud as among those kill and said the name of the other soldier would be releas onc the famili have been notifi . prime minist benjamin netanyahu said israel had paid `` a heart - rend price in our just war in defens of our homeland `` , but said hi countri would continu fight thi war `` to ensur our exist and our futur `` . defenc minist yoav gallant also express hi sorrow , say `` the pain that come with such loss is immens `` . isra ground troop are continu to oper in rafah to oust hama from what it call it “ last major stronghold ” . aid agenc have warn of a dire humanitarian situat in rafah , where the un say around one million palestinian are take refug . on wednesday , world health organ director - gener tedro adhanom ghebreyesu said a signific proport of gaza ' s popul wa face `` catastroph hunger and famin - like condit `` . sever world leader , includ us presid joe biden , have urg israel not to conduct a full scale assault on rafah . the hama - run health ministri say more than 37 , 000 palestinian have been kill sinc the start of the war , and mani hundr of thousand more have been injur or displac . the war began after hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 251 other back to gaza as hostag .