iran ' s late presid , ebrahim raisi , ha been buri in hi home citi of mashhad , four day after he wa kill in a helicopt crash . the 63 - year - old hard - line cleric wa laid to rest in the holi shrine of imam reza , a rever figur in shia islam . tv pictur show larg crowd gather in one of the north - eastern citi ’ s main street ahead of the ceremoni . seven other peopl die in sunday ' s crash dure bad weather in iran ' s mountain north - west . they includ raisi ’ s foreign minist , hossein amir - abdollahian , 60 , who wa buri on thursday at the shah abdol - azim shrine in rey , a southern suburb of the capit tehran . act presid mohammad mokhber , who will serv until an elect is held on 28 june , wa present there to make prepar for the burial . ebrahim raisi ’ s burial at the gold - dome imam reza shrine - a memori to the eighth shia imam - which is consid the holiest in iran , came after three day of ceremoni elsewher . state media describ thursday ' s event as “ histor ” , while mashhad ’ s mayor wa quot as say that “ three million mourner ” had attend - a figur almost equal to the citi ’ s entir popul . earlier , thousand also turn out to watch hi coffin be driven through the eastern citi of birjand , where raisi had been the repres to the assembl of expert . on wednesday , leader and other dignitari from the countri ’ s alli and neighbour attend a commemor event in tehran . also present were repres of the so - call “ axi of resist ” , a loos network of arm group which receiv iranian weapon , train and fund . they includ the polit leader of the iran - back palestinian arm group hama , ismail haniyeh , the deputi secretari - gener of lebanon ’ s hezbollah movement , naim qassem , the spokesman of yemen ' s houthi , moham abdulsalam , and the head of iraq ' s paramilitari popular mobilis forc , faleh al - fayad . senior western offici were notic absent from the ceremoni , reflect their countri ’ strain relat with iran . iran ’ s suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , also led prayer for those kill . `` [ the presid ’ s death ] wa a difficult issu for us , but the iranian nation will turn thi bitter incid into an opportun , ” he told the speaker of lebanon ’ s parliament , nabih berri . raisi wa close to the 85 - year - old suprem leader , who is the ultim author in the islam republ , and wa wide seen as a potenti successor . ten of thousand of peopl have taken part in the funer process in recent day , which the govern and state media have portray as demonstr of nation uniti . '' how do i find someon like him ? i ' m realli worri about that , '' mohsen , a cleric from qom , told afp news agenc at wednesday ’ s funer process in tehran . `` as far as i know , we don ' t have anyon of hi statur . '' civil servant ali mousavi - nejad , said the presenc of so mani peopl “ send a messag to the enemi of the revolut ” . howev , mani more peopl have stay at home , with some even celebr the presid ’ s death despit prosecutor warn that they could face prosecut . million despis raisi for overse the deadli crackdown on the “ woman , life , freedom ” protest that erupt in 2022 , a year after he took offic . he also face call for an intern investig into hi alleg role on the `` death committe `` which order the mass execut of polit prison in the 1980 . hi time as presid will also be rememb for a deepen econom hardship and an unpreced direct militari confront with israel last month , which rais fear of a region war . a femal student , who took part in the protest two year ago , told the bbc : “ peopl are so happi . most of them are wear white or bright colour and smile at each other . ” “ the imag they keep show to the world [ is ] that we ’ re all sad , that we love him . but it isn ’ t true . ” she ad : “ today , when i attend my class , there wa a big banner of hi face in the univers ’ s main hallway . and the student would show the middl finger to hi pictur . ” the student also said the street of tehran were `` full of secur patrol `` to deter protest or celebr . hadi ghaemi , the director of the us - base center for human right in iran ( chri ) advocaci group , said raisi ’ s death should not be exploit to further crack down on civil societi . “ raisi wa a pillar of a system that jail , tortur , and kill peopl for dare to critic state polici , ” he said . “ hi death ha enabl him to escap be held account for hi mani crime and the state ’ s atroc commit under hi rule . ” iranian author say they are still investig what caus the helicopt crash in which he die . offici have said the aircraft - a decad - old , us - made bell 212 - hit a mountainsid as it flew to the north - western citi of tabriz in fog and heavi rain . raisi wa travel with amir - abdollahian , the governor of east azerbaijan provinc , malek rahmati , and tabriz ’ s friday prayer leader , ayatollah mohammad ali al - e hashem , as well as the head of the presidenti secur team and the helicopt ’ s three crew follow the inaugur of two dam on the border with azerbaijan .