a releas isra hostag whose husband is still be held by hama in gaza ha told the bbc she is `` scream `` for him to be freed and ha call on intern mediat to do more . aviva siegel wa releas in novemb after be held for 51 day . her husband keith ha now been a hostag for 193 day . the siegel were kidnap from kibbutz kfar aza on 7 octob when hama attack isra commun near gaza , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 250 hostag . israel ' s retaliatori campaign in gaza ha kill more than 33 , 000 palestinian , the hama - run health ministri there say . aviva never imagin that nearli five month after she said goodby to her husband in gaza , he would still be held captiv there endur brutal condit . `` i ' m not speak . i ' m scream and need help from the whole world to help take keith out and all the hostag , '' she said . `` i wa there for 51 day . i know what it ' s like and when i tri and imagin keith be thrown into the corner , on a mattress on the floor , with no human right at all . it break my heart , and he ' s not there for a day and not for two day . i ' m back for nearli five month , '' she said . in her first interview with a british media outlet , the 62 - year - old spoke not know if keith , an american - isra grandfath , wa still aliv . `` it ' s terribl . i ' m broken up into piec . it ' s veri hard to handl the situat to think about them be there , to see what i saw , go through what i went through with terrorist that were so mean to us , and so brutal , and that keith is still there . `` we don ' t know anyth about him . we don ' t even know that he ' s aliv . and it ' s difficult for me to think that he ' s alon with the terrorist . '' hama attack broke into aviva and keith ' s home and drag them away , break keith ' s rib and shoot him in the hand . onc in gaza , the coupl were move from place to place 13 time . `` one of the time they took us down to a tunnel and there wa no oxygen there . and they just left us there . and i can ' t explain what the feel wa . `` not be abl to breath and you know that it might be your last hour . there wa just no oxygen so they just left us . they went up to the ground to the fresh air and they just left us … we felt like we kind of die . '' at other time they stay in hous , kept with littl food in the dark and order not to stand or talk for day . aviva is clear that some of the femal hostag she wa held with were sexual assault by the hama men hold them . `` i wa there and i saw the girl come after those thing happen and tell us what happen ... one of the day one of the girl went to the toilet , and when she came back , i could see on her face that someth happen and i got up and i gave her a hug and the terrorist came in and start scream . `` after a coupl of hour she came and she told us she said ' he touch me ' and that wa one of the terribl moment becaus i felt that i couldn ' t even look after thi littl girl . she ' s just a child . she could be my child . and the onli thing i could do wa look at her in the eye becaus we weren ' t allow to hug , we cri insid . '' on anoth occas one of the gunmen badli beat a femal hostag , aviva said . `` he pull up her hair and push her on the floor . she fell with the gun [ point ] into her face and he said ' one more word and i ' m go to kill you ' . '' even though she put her finger in her ear aviva could still hear the hostag be hit . on the 50th day the hama gunmen told her she wa be releas ; she beg them not to leav her husband behind . `` they didn ' t even let me go and say goodby to keith until i push them . i said ' i ' m go to say goodby ' . i told him to be strong for me and i ' ll be strong for him . and i ' m happi that i did that becaus i ' m sure that he think about that sentenc . '' throughout her captiv aviva believ her son shai had been kill when hama storm the kibbutz . `` on the bu on the way back , i told the social worker that i think i ' m go to faint becaus they ' re go to tell me that shai die . and she came back after 10 minut and told me you have four children . and i wa just the happiest person . '' keith still doesn ' t know that shai surviv . aviva is distraught that her husband and the other hostag haven ' t been releas and believ hama is `` get the pleasur of them be there and see us suffer `` . `` they feel like they ' ve won . they are play game . '' she want intern mediat includ the us , qatar and egypt to do more . `` i think that qatar need to understand they need to be much stronger to help to get them out . and if they do , i think it will be the best thing for them becaus peopl in the whole world will look at them as strong and the us need to stand strong and help becaus we need help … i think that everybodi the whole world need to do more . '' on wednesday , qatari pm sheikh moham bin abdulrahman al thani said long - run talk for a truce and the releas of hostag were `` go through a sensit stage with some stall , and we are tri as much as possibl to address thi stall `` without give more detail . the us say hama reject the latest propos put to it , which includ an initi six - week ceasefir that would see the group releas 40 hostag who are aliv , with the prioriti be given to femal captiv includ soldier , men over the age of 50 - which would includ 64 - year - old keith - and those with seriou medic condit . the deal `` would achiev much of what hama claim it want to achiev `` , said us state depart spokesman matthew miller . but hama reportedli told negoti it wa not hold 40 hostag in thi categori . isra offici had previous said they believ about 133 hostag were still in gaza with more than 30 of them presum dead . hama also want a perman ceasefir , the complet withdraw of isra troop and the return of displac palestinian to northern gaza without restrict . prime minist benjamin netanyahu meanwhil ha insist that israel will continu fight until hama is destroy . aviva is onli too awar that as talk drag on without agreement , more of the hostag may alreadi be dead . `` i ' m start to lose my hope . and i ' m sure that keith is too . when i wa there i use to think to myself i ' d rather be dead than what i ' m go through and i ' m sure keith think that too . ''