if diplomat have groundhog day , when they are condemn to reliv the same 24 hour , perhap antoni blinken , the us secretari of state , felt a certain weari as hi jet approach the middl east on hi latest trip . it is hi eighth diplomat tour of the region in the eight month sinc the hama attack on israel on 7 octob last year . the polit of tri to negoti an end to the war in gaza and an exchang of isra hostag for palestinian prison were alreadi complic . they are more tangl than ever now that the isra opposit leader benni gantz ha resign from the war cabinet of prime minist benjamin netanyahu , along with hi polit alli gadi eisenkot . both men are retir gener who led the israel defens forc ( idf ) as chief of staff . without benni gantz , the american have lost their favourit contact in the cabinet . now he ’ s back in opposit , mr gantz want new elect - he is the pollster ’ favourit to be the next prime minist - but mr netanyahu is safe as long as he can preserv the coalit that give him 64 vote in the 120 - member isra parliament . that depend on keep the support of the leader of two ultranationalist faction . they are itamar ben - gvir , the nation secur minist , and bezalel smotrich , the financ minist . that is the point at which secretari of state blinken ’ s mission collid with isra polit . presid joe biden believ that the time ha come to end the war in gaza . mr blinken ’ s job is to tri to make that happen . but messr ben - gvir and smotrich have threaten to bring down the netanyahu govern if he agre to ani ceasefir until they are satisfi that hama ha been elimin . they are extrem jewish nationalist , who want the war to continu until no trace of hama remain . they believ that gaza , like all the territori between the mediterranean sea and the river jordan , is jewish land that should be settl by jew . palestinian , they argu , could be encourag to leav gaza `` voluntarili `` . antoni blinken is in the middl east to tri to stop the latest ceasefir plan from go the way of all the other . three ceasefir resolut in the un secur council were veto by the us , but now joe biden is readi for a deal . on 31 may , the presid made a speech urg hama to accept what he said wa a new isra propos to end the war in gaza . it wa a three - part deal - which ha now been back by a un resolut - start with a six - week ceasefir , a `` surg `` of humanitarian aid into gaza , and the exchang of some isra hostag for palestinian prison . the deal would progress to the releas of all the hostag , a perman “ cessat of hostil ” and ultim the huge job of rebuild gaza . isra should no longer fear hama , he said , becaus it wa no longer abl to repeat 7 octob . presid biden and hi advis knew there wa troubl ahead . hama insist it will onli agre to a ceasefir that guarante an isra withdraw from gaza and an end to the war . the destruct and civilian death inflict by israel in nuseirat refuge camp in gaza dure the raid to free four hostag last week can onli have strengthen that resolv . the hama - run health author in gaza say that 274 palestinian were kill dure the raid . the idf say the number wa less than 100 . mr biden also recognis that some power forc in israel would object . `` i ' ve urg the leadership in israel to stand behind thi deal , '' he said in the speech . `` regardless of whatev pressur come . '' the pressur came quickli , from messr ben gvir and smotrich . they are senior govern minist , viscer oppos to the deal that joe biden present . it made no differ to them that the deal wa approv by the war cabinet , as they are not member . as expect , they threaten to toppl the netanyahu coalit if he agre to the deal . neither hama nor israel have publicli commit to the deal that presid biden laid out . he accept that the languag of part of it need to be finalis . the ambigu in part of the propos might in other conflict , between other belliger , allow room for diplomat manoeuvr . but that would requir a share realis that the time had come to make a deal , that more war would not bring ani benefit . there is no sign that the hama leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , is at that point . he seem determin to stick the cours he ha follow sinc 7 octob . some report out of gaza said that palestinian in the ruin of nuseirat camp were swear at hama as well as israel for disregard their live . the bbc can not confirm that , as like other intern news organis it is not allow by israel and egypt to enter gaza , except under rare and highli supervis trip with the isra militari . it seem clear though , that vast number of palestinian dead have strengthen , not weaken the resili of hama . for them , surviv of their group and it leader equal victori . they will focu on the fact that the kill of more than 37 , 000 palestinian , mostli civilian – accord to the health ministri in gaza – have brought israel into deep disreput . it face a case alleg genocid at the intern court of justic , and applic at the intern crimin court for arrest warrant for benjamin netanyahu and israel ’ s defenc minist yoav gallant . on the isra side , prime minist netanyahu ha lost two member of the war cabinet , messr gantz and eisenkot , who want a paus in the war to allow negoti to free hostag . he is more expos , without the polit insul they provid , to the hardlin , messr ben - gvir and smotrich . perhap antoni blinken will urg him to call their bluff , to make the deal and satisfi million of isra who want the hostag back befor more of them are kill . mr netanyahu might then have no choic other than to risk hi govern by gambl on an elect . defeat will bring forward commiss of enquiri that will examin whether he bear respons for the polit , intellig and militari failur that allow hama to break into israel eight month ago . or benjamin netanyahu might default to the techniqu of procrastin and propaganda that he ha perfect over all hi year as israel ’ s longest - serv prime minist . if in doubt , play for time , and push argument harder than ever . on 24 juli , he will return to one of hi favourit pulpit , when he address a joint session of the us congress in washington dc . someth better , for him , might emerg .