four isra soldier have been kill in a hama rocket attack near one of the main cross use to deliv aid into gaza , israel ha said . the kerem shalom cross wa close overnight by israel follow the strike . subsequ isra strike in the southern gazan citi of rafah have reportedli kill at least 12 peopl . israel ' s militari said earli on monday it wa urg gazan shelter in part of rafah to evacu . it come as talk aim at secur a ceasefir deal in gaza and the releas of hostag have stall . the isra defens forc ( idf ) said 10 projectil had been fire from an area near the rafah cross in southern gaza , about 3 . 6km ( 2 . 2 mile ) from kerem shalom . hama ' s arm wing claim respons and said it target wa a nearbi isra armi base . they were fire from a site some 350m from a civilian shelter , the idf said it call the launch `` anoth clear exampl of the terrorist organis ' s systemat exploit of humanitarian facil and space , and their continu use of the gazan civilian popul as human shield `` . hama deni it use civilian as human shield . the isra militari confirm a counter - strike in rafah , say it struck the launcher from which the projectil were fire and a nearbi militari structur . there were two isra strike on sunday , kill at least 12 peopl accord to gaza health offici . the latest violenc follow two day of talk with mediat in cairo , egypt . there ha been littl progress , with both israel and hama say they will not give ground on key demand , but discuss are expect to resum on monday . hama said it deleg would travel to qatar to consult with the group ' s leadership . cia chief william burn , who ha also been involv in mediat effort , ha left the egyptian capit for talk in doha , accord to report . the truce propos is believ to involv a 40 - day paus in fight , allow the releas of hostag in gaza and a number of palestinian prison be held in isra jail . hama said it view the current propos in a `` posit light `` , but the main stick point appear to be whether the ceasefir deal would be perman or temporari . the group is insist ani deal make a specif commit toward an end to the war , but israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu reject that on sunday . `` the state of israel can not accept thi [ hama ' s demand ] , we are not prepar to accept a situat in which the hama brigad come out of their bunker , take control of gaza again , rebuild their militari infrastructur , and return to threaten the citizen of israel in the settlement surround the southern mountain , in all part of the countri . `` thi will be a terribl defeat for the state of israel , '' he ad . the war began after wave of hama gunmen storm across gaza ' s border into israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take more than 250 hostag . the group is proscrib as a terrorist organis by mani western countri . dure the subsequ isra militari campaign in gaza , more than 34 , 600 palestinian have been kill and over 77 , 900 wound , accord to figur from the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . mr netanyahu ha face pressur from within hi far - right coalit to press ahead with the long - promis offens in gaza ' s southern - most citi , rafah , where an estim 1 . 4 million peopl have taken shelter after flee fight in northern and central part of the strip . the us is reluct to back a militari oper that could caus signific civilian casualti , and ha insist on see a plan to protect displac palestinian first . earli on monday , the idf said it wa encourag resid in rafah ' s eastern neighbourhood to make their way toward an `` expand humanitarian zone . '' `` the expand humanitarian zone includ field hospit , tent and increas amount of food , water , medicin and other suppli . `` in accord with the approv of the govern , an ongo situat assess will guid the gradual movement of civilian in the specifi area in eastern rafah , to the humanitarian area , '' a statement post to x , formerli twitter , read . seven month into it offens against hama , israel ha said that victori is imposs without take rafah . but with more than more than 1 . 4 million displac palestinian shelter there , western power and neighbour egypt have rais fear that there could be high number of civilian casualti . updat 7 may 2024 : the number of soldier kill in the hama rocket attack ha been updat in thi articl from three to four .