the foreign offic is investig a claim by hama that a british - isra hostag ha die in gaza . hama , proscrib as a terrorist group by the uk govern , claim nadav popplewel die of wound sustain in an isra airstrik more than a month ago . mr popplewel , 51 , wa seiz with hi mother channah peri on 7 octob when fighter cross the border fenc and launch deadli attack in israel . the isra militari is yet to comment . a foreign offic spokesperson said it wa urgent seek more inform on the matter . it ad that the depart ' s thought `` are with hi famili at thi extrem distress time . '' in a brief statement via the hostag and miss famili forum , the famili of mr popplewel ask media organis not to publish footag of him releas by hama on saturday , which show him in captiv with a black eye . speak to the bbc ' s laura kuenssberg on sunday morn , foreign secretari david cameron confirm that he had seen the video , but gave no further updat on the investig . `` we don ' t want to say anyth until we have better inform , '' lord cameron said . he describ hama as `` callou `` , to releas the video and `` play with the famili ' s emot in that way `` . mr popplewel ' s sister ayelet svatitzki told the bbc last octob how gunmen had attack the kibbutz in southern israel where they live , kill her older brother roi . on the day of the attack , ms svatitzki said she receiv two pictur , sent by the attack from her mother ' s phone , show the pair sit in her mother ' s live room . underneath wa written `` hama `` in english . hour later , a third pictur wa post on her mother ' s facebook show them with an arm hama gunman in the corner . ms svatitzki ' s mother wa releas last novemb dure a temporari ceasefir agre between hama and israel . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag , accord to isra author . more than 34 , 900 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . israel say 128 hostag are unaccount for .