polic arrest 33 peopl at georg washington univers ( gw ) earli wednesday after offic move to clear a pro - palestinian encamp on campu . washington dc polic told the bbc that protestor were arrest for assault on a polic offic and unlaw entri . univers student had been insid the encamp sinc 25 april . hous republican cancel schedul testimoni by mayor muriel bowser follow the arrest after pressur dc offici to clear the protest . the polic oper came a week after six republican member of the hous of repres oversight committe visit the gw protest encamp and call on offici to arrest protest involv . wednesday ' s move to clear the encamp wa made ahead of a plan appear by ms bowser and metropolitan polic depart chief pamela smith befor the hous oversight committe on the citi ' s handl of the unrest . in a statement , the chair of the hous oversight committe , republican repres jame comer , announc that appear wa be cancel and said he wa `` pleas that the potenti oversight hear led to swift action by mayor bowser `` . accord to a report on the arrest by gw hatchet , the univers ' s independ student - run newspap : `` offic gave their third and final warn to demonstr to move at about 03 : 30 local time , say all who remain in u - yard and the stretch of h street in front of the plaza would be arrest . '' the newspap report that some protestor who refus to leav were pepper spray by polic . in a statement , the univers said polic `` conduct an orderli and safe oper to dispers the demonstr from the illeg encamp on the gw ' s univers yard `` . they ad there were no report of seriou injuri dure the arrest . previous , despit gw ' s effort to offer an altern protest site , the encamp remain . univers offici say they are unsur how mani of the demonstr were student . `` while the univers is commit to protect student ' right to free express , the encamp had evolv into an unlaw activ , with particip in direct violat of multipl univers polici and citi regul , '' a previou gw statement said . tension had grown in recent day after polic remov a larg palestinian flag that demonstr had rais abov a campu build . the univers call the flag ' s hoist an `` aggress act of lawless `` . metro polic told the bbc there ha been `` a gradual escal in the volatil `` of the protest and , as a result , offic move in . `` therefor , thi morn , work close with the gw administr and polic , mpd move to dispers the demonstr from the gw campu and surround street , '' the statement ad . gw said it remain open and oper as normal , but addit secur personnel have been deploy to univers yard and the surround area . the yard will remain close until the end of commenc ceremoni on 19 may , the univers ad . there have been heat demonstr at a number of univers across the countri against the war in gaza . sinc the 7 octob attack by hama and israel ' s retaliatori assault , student have launch ralli , sit - in , fast and , most recent , encamp against the war . accord to a bbc talli , there have been pro - palestin protest at 45 state and washington dc sinc the demonstr start at columbia univers in new york on 17 april . they are demand that their school , mani with massiv endow , financi divest from israel . mani also want their univers to end academ relationship with isra institut . previous , presid joe biden said peopl had the right to protest but not the right to caus chao . but , mr biden warn on tuesday the threat of antisemit is grow in the us , includ on colleg campus , join a heat american debat about jewish secur , zionism , free speech and support for israel , in the countri with the largest jewish popul after israel . address a bipartisan audienc at the us holocaust memori museum ' s annual commemor , mr biden said : `` thi hatr ( of jew ) continu to lie deep in the heart of too mani peopl in the world and requir our continu vigil and outspoken , '' biden said . `` now here we are , not 75 year later , but just seven and a half month later , and peopl are alreadi forget ... that hama unleash thi terror , '' he ad . `` i have not forgotten , nor have you . and we will not forget . ''