hama say it ha launch a `` big `` rocket attack at the tel aviv area in central israel , sever of which were intercept by air defenc system , accord to the isra militari . hour later , palestinian health and civilian offici said dozen of palestinian had been kill and injur in an isra strike on an area in the southern gazan citi of rafah , where displac peopl were shelter . mani of the casualti were live in tent at the tal al - sultan camp , the palestinian red crescent societi said , ad that the death toll wa like to rise . an offici for the hama - run media offic said 30 peopl had been kill . in a statement , the israel defens forc ( idf ) confirm they had carri out an air strike on `` a hama compound in rafah , '' where `` signific hama terrorist were oper `` . acknowledg report of civilian casualti from a fire ignit by the strike , the armi said the incid wa `` under review `` . the hama attack on tel aviv - the first time in nearli four month that the group ha attack central israel - came amid an ongo isra militari oper in rafah , which ha continu in defianc of a rule from the un ' s top court . the barrag of up to eight rocket highlight the threat hama still pose to peopl across israel , although there were no report of injuri . it also illustr the challeng the isra armi face as it move further into southern gaza to oust hama from what it call it “ last major stronghold ” . the rocket attack came ahead of further ceasefir negoti between israel and hama , which are expect to resum next week . the militari wing of hama , the izzedin al - qassam brigad , said it wa in respons to `` the massacr of civilian `` . but by briefli destabilis the rel normal the resid of tel aviv - the econom centr of israel - had been enjoy in recent month , hama may be tri to show it strength ahead of the talk , or tri to derail them . air raid siren also sound in citi includ herzliya and petah tikva . the idf said it iron dome anti - missil system had intercept three of the eight projectil . most of them land in open area , but photo publish by isra media appear to show minor damag from shrapnel to a home in herzliya , where an elderli women live with her caretak . polic said two peopl suffer light injuri . and in kfar saba , north of tel aviv , a rocket fell on a field , creat a larg crater . later on sunday , siren also rang out in sever border villag in the south adjac to gaza , includ some where resid have return to live sinc the hama attack on 7 octob . hama did not confirm the rocket were launch from rafah , where fight ha been report near the kuwaiti hospit . despit intens intern concern , israel began it offens in the southern gaza citi about three week ago , vow to destroy what it said were the last hama battalion present there . but the latest rocket attack are a remind of hama ’ s militari capabl after seven month of an offens israel said aim to elimin the group . war cabinet minist benni gantz said the rocket launch show the need for the militari to push ahead with it assault . the un say more than 800 , 000 palestinian have fled rafah , a citi on gaza ’ s southern edg . about 1 . 5 million had been shelter there from the fight elsewher in gaza . the palestinian red crescent societi said the area which wa hit by the idf air strike had been design for displac peopl . but aid group say that nowher in gaza is safe for the territori ' s estim two million civilian . they say some isra strike have hit civilian in area previous design by the idf as `` humanitarian zone `` . israel ' s militari campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other back to gaza as hostag . nearli 36 , 000 palestinian have been kill in the war sinc then , accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri .