the children hear the dog snarl outsid , just beyond the flimsi plastic of the tent . the seven children of rehab abu daqqa crowd around their mother . she is the last safe harbour in their live . they have share thing , these children and their mother , which can not be commun to those who have not seen the thing they have seen . is there a word to express what a child feel know that just a few yard away , anim are drag a bodi from a grave ? the vocabulari of childhood is inadequ amid the horror of thi emerg cemeteri in rafah . scare is the word rehab abu daqqa use . warn : thi report contain descript some reader may find disturb that is accur . but there is more to it , she know . the children have seen dog eat the bodi . a human leg lie by a fenc . so ye they are scare . but revolt too , and uncomprehend . the children who onc had a home , went to school , live accord to the establish rhythm of their famili and commun , are now refuge in a place that reek of death . `` thi morn the dog took out a bodi from one of the grave and were eat it , '' rehab abu daqqa say . `` from night until dawn the dog do not let us sleep … our children keep hold on to me becaus of how scare they are . '' the dog come in pack of dozen . domest pet whose owner are dead or displac , mix with rafah ' s exist popul of stray , all of them now feral and scaveng for whatev they can eat . the cemeteri ha numer shallow grave where peopl place their dead until a time come when they can be taken to their home area . on some grave rel have place brick to tri to keep the dog away from the dead . rehab abu daqqa is gaunt and exhaust . her mouth and nose are cover by cloth to fend off the stench of the grave . she prais the young men who came earlier to reinter a bodi drag out that morn . `` i don ' t accept that me or my children should live next to a cemeteri . my child is in the 3rd grade and today instead of play a game he wa draw a grave and in the middl he drew a dead bodi . these are the children of palestin … what can i tell you ? miser , the word miser doesn ' t even explain it . '' the cemeteri is one of sever in gaza that ha becom a refug for peopl whose home have been destroy in the fight . there are more than 1 . 4 million peopl crowd into rafah - five time it pre - war popul . accord to the norwegian refuge council that work out at 22 , 000 peopl for everi squar kilometr . alreadi diseas is spread , with outbreak of diarrhoea , hepat a , and mening - as well as a continu hunger crisi . rafah is where the refuge of gaza reach the final wall , the border with egypt which is close to the overwhelm major of the displac . they arriv after be push from one place to anoth by the advanc of the isra forc . rehab abu daqqa ha fled three time alreadi and may soon have to uproot her famili again if the isra defens forc ( idf ) offens on rafah goe ahead . israel ' s prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , ha said a militari oper in rafah will go ahead `` with or without `` a ceasefir to destroy what he say are four hama battalion in the citi . hama insist there can be no deal without a commit to perman end the war . far right member of the isra coalit cabinet are warn mr netanyahu against compromis . the financ minist , bezalel smotrich , a standard bearer for the settler movement , ha call for `` absolut destruct `` in rafah , say there can be no `` half work `` . `` where do they [ refuge ] move to ? `` ask dr rik peeperkorn , region director of the world health organ ( who ) , who recent return from rafah . `` we alreadi have a crisi in health . we have a water and sanit crisi , a food crisi . there ' s a humanitarian disast . so , there ' ll be just anoth humanitarian disast on top of thi … what we expect will be substanti addit mortal and sick when a militari incurs happen . so , a lot more peopl die … a lot more death and a lot more diseas . '' dr peeperkorn work for seven year in afghanistan with the un and is not a man who is easili daunt . but when we met in jerusalem he look tire . the tired of a man who wake everi morn to the certainti of a crisi that seem to threaten ever wors consequ . the who is alreadi prepar for addit field hospit to help if peopl are forc to move . but what happen to the serious ill and the elderli , the 700 kidney dialysi patient who are current be treat in a facil which onc use to cater to 50 ? `` if you look at our health sector , it is crippl alreadi and an incurs will actual mean that we lose anoth three hospit … like they can not be reach , they might be damag , they might be partial destroy . we are prepar for it with a conting plan which is like a band aid . '' my bbc colleagu have provid graphic evid of the condit insid hospit , film day after day throughout the war . at the european hospit in rafah famili are camp in ani space they can find , in the ground and insid . they prepar meal in ward . their children roam along the darken corridor , past the wound be wheel on trolli , an old woman sit on her own stare into the distanc . in the emerg care ward , 11 - year - old yassin al ghalban is cri on hi bed . hi leg are gone , amput below the knee after an air strike . a rel stand by the bed say , `` he is surviv on painkil `` . at the cemeteri , rehab abu daqqa watch her children play a few yard from the grave . the dog are gone but the children keep close to their mother . soon she will be on the move again becaus she can not bear for her children to stay in thi place . there is no talk of hope here . hope in gaza depart at differ speed accord to your circumst . it can vanish in a second with the kill of a love one . or it can depart increment , hour after hour , as you are push from one squalid camp to anoth , and word fail as the question from the children pile up . addit report by alic doyard and haneen abdeen