the hama - run health ministri in gaza say an isra raid on a refuge camp - which led to the rescu of four hostag - kill 274 peopl , includ children and other civilian . on saturday israel ' s forc , back by air strike , fought intens gun battl with hama in and around the nuseirat refuge camp , free the captiv . noa argamani , 26 , almog meir jan , 22 , andrei kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 , who were abduct from the nova music festiv on 7 octob have been return to israel . the isra militari ha estim that fewer than 100 peopl die in the oper . but the latest figur from the hama - run health ministri in gaza would , if confirm , make it one of the deadliest day of the conflict so far . peopl live in the dens - popul area have describ the terror of come under intens bombard and heavi gunfir . one man , abdel salam darwish , told the bbc he wa in a market buy veget when he heard fighter jet from abov and the sound of gunfir . '' afterward , peopl ' s bodi were in piec , scatter in the street , and blood stain the wall , '' he said . the return of the hostag to their famili ha spark celebr in israel and world leader , includ us presid joe biden , have welcom the news of their releas . but there ha been mount critic of the deadli cost of the oper insid gaza , with european union foreign affair chief josep borrel say he condemn it `` in the strongest term `` . '' report from gaza of anoth massacr of civilian are appal , '' he wrote on x . an isra minist said that instead of condemn hama for hide behind civilian , the eu had condemn israel for save it citizen . imag from the nuseirat refuge camp area show intens bombard and peopl mourn the dead . two hospit in gaza , al - aqsa hospit and al - awda hospit , said they had count 70 bodi between them . the hama - run health ministri releas name of 86 peopl out of the 274 palestinian it say were kill dure the two - hour oper . previous , israel ' s militari spokesman daniel hagari estim there were fewer than 100 casualti in what wa a `` high - risk , complex mission `` base on `` precis intellig `` . defenc minist yoav gallant said special forc oper `` under heavi fire `` when rescu the hostag . one special forc offic wa wound and later die in hospit . video from gaza taken in the aftermath of the raid show scene of carnag . footag from the al - aqsa hospit show numer peopl with sever injuri lay on the ground , leav bare ani space on the blood - stain floor for doctor to move between patient . other video show a frequent stream of new case be driven in by car and ambul and carri into the build . the director of the al - awda hospit in nuseirat told bbc arab the number of dead come to the hospit increas throughout saturday . dr marwan abu nasser also spoke about the lack of a morgu in the hospit to accommod the bodi of those kill who had been taken to the hospit . one man , who said more than 40 member of hi famili have been kill sinc the conflict began in octob , describ to the bbc be in a hous which wa hit by a strike . '' as soon as these children and women enter the hous , the bomb attack took place , claim the live of all those insid it , '' he said , '' thi home , which use to hous approxim 30 peopl who then becam 50 , wa bomb ... onli me , my father , my wife , and a young man surviv ... we are the onli survivor out of 50 peopl . '' the bloodsh on the ground prompt a rare vent of critic at hama from peopl in gaza . hassan omar , 37 , said he lament the unnecessari loss of live in isra strike , tell the bbc : `` for each isra hostag they could have freed 80 palestinian prison and without ani bloodsh - [ that ] is a million time better than lose 100 dead . '' my messag to hama is stop the loss is part of the gain , we should get rid of those who control us from qatar hotel . ” the rescu of hostag came amid effort for a ceasefir and hostag releas deal between israel and hama . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha been urg to reach an agreement but face opposit from far - right alli who say militari action is the onli way to bring the hostag back . saturday ’ s oper is the most success rescu of hostag by the isra militari in thi war – and analyst say it could chang the calcul of a prime minist who is under increas pressur . in respons to the militari offens in nuseirat , hama polit leader ismail haniyeh said israel could not forc it choic on the group . he said the group would not agre to a ceasefir deal unless it achiev secur for palestinian . dure it 7 octob attack in southern israel hama kill about 1 , 200 peopl and took some 251 peopl hostag . some 116 remain in the palestinian territori , includ 41 the armi say are dead . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 hostag in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . on saturday , the hama - run health ministri said the death toll in gaza is now 37 , 084 peopl .