befor the sun rose on saturday , 10 februari , the crack of gunfir were alreadi echo . dr amira al - assouli wa in nasser hospit ' s matern build when she heard a man scream the shahada , the islam declar of faith , right below her window . `` there ' s an injur man , '' peopl began shout . by the time she race down the stair and reach him , he wa dead . ibrahim salama had also heard the scream . he wa stay in a shack on the hospit ground and came out to see what wa happen . `` suddenli i felt someth hot in my leg and i fell down , '' he say . `` i wa look at my leg - it felt veri heavi and i saw a lot of blood . '' dr assouli again risk her life . video film by an onlook show her take off her jacket and run to him with her head low . `` i didn ' t hesit , '' she told the bbc . ibrahim rememb dr assouli put a hand on hi chest and declar : `` he ' s aliv . he ' s aliv . '' warn : thi articl contain detail some reader may find disturb the bbc ha spent sever week establish what happen at nasser , one of gaza ' s biggest and busiest hospit until an israel defens forc ( idf ) raid last month . on tuesday , we reveal accus from medic staff that they were detain , beaten and humili by idf forc dure the raid , prompt the uk govern to call for answer from israel . the us state depart said israel ha a `` moral respons `` to investig credibl report of abus or violat of humanitarian law . now , through wit testimoni and analysi of verifi video footag , we can show how the day lead up to the raid unfold . medic , patient and displac civilian shelter outsid the main entranc describ how they were trap as anyon who tri to move around would be shot at . the bbc ha verifi footag of 21 incid of gunfir or it impact film from within the hospit ground and ha confirm the shoot of three peopl there . we share our find in detail with the idf , along with question about it oper at nasser . israel ha repeatedli accus hama fighter of use hospit and medic centr as hide place for weapon and command centr . it also say hama and other arm organis have use gaza ' s hospit to hide hostag taken from israel on the 7 octob attack . the idf told the bbc there were `` activ fight in the area `` in the day befor it troop enter the hospit , and that `` precis shot `` had been fire at `` terrorist identifi in the vicin `` . onc insid , the idf said , it found medicin that were intend for isra hostag as well as weapon . hostag who were releas dure a brief truce in novemb have given account of be lock in room there . sharon aloni cunio ha said she wa taken to nasser in an ambul , disguis in tradit arab cloth , while her husband , who remain in gaza , wa put under a sheet to look like a corps . the coupl , with their two young children and other hostag , spent week in a small room on the hospit ' s first floor , where stack box separ the hostag section from other room , she said . other have given similar account of be held at the hospit , describ cri as they were lock in room there , have to knock on a door to be escort to the toilet , and their terror at not know what would happen to them . those we spoke to in the hospit , includ intern medic who have stay and work there sinc the war began , say there wa no overt presenc of hama fighter they were awar of . follow the raid , the idf said some 200 terror suspect had been detain , includ some who had `` pose as medic `` . in the day befor the raid , the fear in nasser wa build , and almost everyon we spoke to who wa in the hospit at thi time believ idf sniper and drone were target peopl move between build on the hospit site or stand by window . `` they surround the hospit with tank , with bulldoz , quadcopt in the sky , sniper were everywher , '' said 26 - year - old dr mahmoud shammala , an oral and maxillo - facial surgeon . `` we can ' t stand by the window becaus if we stand by the window we ' ll get shot in our head or even chest or even shoulder . and also bomb is everywher ... it wa veri difficult time , especi in those last day . '' peopl in the hospit ground had littl protect from gunfir . `` a lot of displac peopl who were live in the complex were walk around normal and they got target , '' said nasser doctor moham harara . `` it got to the point where we couldn ' t reach these injur peopl . if you want to go to bring someon who ' s injur insid , it ' s like sacrif or endang yourself . a lot of peopl tri to go to save their brother , rel , anyon who they knew who wa injur . they were target directli when they tri to reach them . '' when ask about report of shoot of peopl within nasser , the idf respond that it fire onli `` precis shot at terrorist `` identifi around the hospit complex . on 8 februari , a nurs , hazim abu omar , wa shot and wound while on shift insid the oper depart . multipl peopl the bbc spoke to refer to the incid , includ two doctor who said they were in the room at the time . footag share onlin by a nasser doctor show the injur nurs be rush into an oper theatr on foot and appear to start to lose conscious as colleagu struggl to cut away hi blood - soak cloth . it is not possibl to determin who fire the shot , and the idf did not respond to request for comment on thi . the same day , a video show peopl in civilian cloth use an improvis pulley system to get water to a group of peopl gather near the ground of one of the three school locat near the hospit . when a man attempt to get across the street , a loud gunshot can be heard . it doe not strike him but the bbc ' s assess of the audio suggest it wa fire close to where the video wa film at the hospit ' s north gate . in other video post that day , the buzz of drone can be heard in the sky overhead as peopl move through the hospit ground in fear . ibrahim salama wa shot in both leg when he went outsid on 10 februari to see who wa scream . the pain , he told the bbc , wa unimagin . as he lay in the shack cover in blood , a doctor who wa too scare to approach wa call to him and tell him to keep talk , tri to make sure he didn ' t lose conscious . other stood frozen , film video and take photo on their phone . by the time dr assouli arriv at hi side , ibrahim had been lie there for about an hour . she and the other medic put him on a stretcher and rush him insid the hospit a video from the same day show a man crawl along the ground as he tri to reach an injur or dead person lie just a few feet from the hospit ground . the same bodi can be seen still lie there in a video post a day later , suggest no one felt it wa safe enough to step out into that street to retriev it . `` we can ' t go from one build to anoth build . the sniper will shoot at anybodi who would move in the hospit yard . nobodi can move outsid of the build , '' dr moham moghrabi said in a video post on instagram that day . on 11 februari , two separ piec of footag emerg of a corps lie on the ground between the main hospit build and the gate on to al - dahra road . dr harara said bodi could stay in these posit for four or five day , with cat and dog `` eat their flesh `` . the bbc ha verifi footag of dead bodi left to rot on the ground , close to the gate . cat can be seen crawl over the corps . the chao and confus in nasser escal further on 13 februari when a handcuf man dress in a white jumpsuit with a piec of yellow fabric tie around hi head enter the complex with order for peopl to leav . he wa identifi to the bbc by peopl at the hospit as jamal abu al - ola , a palestinian man stay at the hospit who had disappear a day earlier . the overal he wa wear are the same as those worn by other men detain by the idf . eyewit said he enter the hospit three time that day , follow a precis rout , and with a drone overhead . the second time , there appear to be a cut on hi face . `` he wa speak in an unnatur way . he wa so scare from everyth they [ the idf ] were say to him , '' dr harara told the bbc . `` hi mum wa there and at that time she told him ' pleas come and stay with us , don ' t go back for them ' . he told her ' i need to go back , i can not stay . ' he said if he didn ' t go back they would come insid and they would kill him and they would execut hi famili . '' on the third occas , as he left the hospit , eyewit say he wa shot dead . `` [ he ] wa execut befor our eye . in front of the displac and in front of hi mother , '' one displac person stay on the hospit ground told the bbc . nobodi the bbc spoke to saw where the bullet came from . the idf did not respond to bbc question about jamal ' s death , but ha previous said that the `` incid in question `` wa under review . doctor at nasser report more shoot within the hospit ground on thi day . dr khale serr post on instagram say that two boy had been shot while play , and in a voicenot from the time , share with the bbc , he said three civilian were shot in front of the hospit gate . `` one of them ha a bullet insid hi abdomen , '' he said . photo of each of the boy dr serr said were shot while play match a video post on the same day by a journalist who wa in the complex at the time and verifi by the bbc . we can not independ confirm the circumst of the shoot . on the same day , a tank knock down part of the wall surround the nasser complex . order for peopl to leav were made over loudspeak on isra militari vehicl . `` get out immedi ... those who would not get out risk their live . all those that are insid the hospit , get out at onc , '' a messag blare in arab . on 14 februari , a drone circl abov nasser . a voic order everyon to leav . the isra raid wa about to begin . ibrahim left on crutch . he describ see `` bodi of peopl all around `` , some `` be eaten by cat `` . as he left through an isra checkpoint , he say he saw mani peopl around him be detain . while ibrahim had escap , thing at nasser were onli get more intens . in the earli hour of 15 februari , a shell hit the orthopaed depart , kill one person , accord to the hospit ' s gener manag , atef al - hout . in refer to it oper at nasser , the idf said a `` stray shell `` had been fire toward a militari target nearbi and had accident hit a build insid the hospit . howev , it did not specifi which build it wa refer to . a video show the medic who had remain at the hospit pull the injur from a room reduc to rubbl . and for those who chose to leav , the road wa not safe . the bbc ha verifi footag of dr harara among a group of peopl who came under fire just over 2km from the hospit as they head south from khan youni toward the southern citi of rafah on 15 februari . he is seen shout for help as he frantic appli a tourniquet to an injur woman ' s leg . in a later fragment of video , she is seen lie in the back of a car be driven away from the scene when anoth loud bang is heard . in anoth video , a group of men - some of whom are wear medic scrub - flee when one step into the street and come under fire . back at nasser hospit , a crack of gunfir can be heard on video befor an injur man crawl back through a door in the emerg build . he is drag away along the floor as blood gush from hi injuri and he groan in pain . among those who remain at the hospit were patient who could not move , displac peopl with nowher to go , and medic who felt duti - bound to stay . `` where could i evacu with a diabet husband who need to have a bathroom next to him , and is on a walker . i can not live in a tent or on the sand so i stay , '' one woman told the bbc . dure israel ' s takeov of the hospit , those who remain describ surviv on limit food and water , perform ablut , or cleans befor prayer , use the fluid from medic drip and live in cramp and unsanitari condit after be move into a singl build . they fear be shot if they return to the yard . the idf ha said it oper at nasser were conduct in a `` precis and focus manner , creat minim damag to the hospit ' s ongo activ , and without harm the patient or the medic staff `` . on 16 februari , medic at the hospit were forc to strip and kneel with their hand behind their head in front of the shack where ibrahim had been shot almost a week earlier . mani were then detain . two day later , the world health organ declar nasser wa no longer function . the idf end it oper there on 25 februari . in it statement , the idf ad : `` [ t ] he idf forc provid the hospit with hundr of food ration and an altern gener that enabl it to continu function and treat the patient within it . '' after the isra oper end , the doctor who remain at nasser say it wa loot by local gazan and they fled . `` they took everyth - food , water , medicin , batteri . they are hungri . they need anyth [ they can get ] , '' said dr hatem raba . when the bbc visit the hospit thi week , the ward onli recent teem with patient stood empti . onli a few displac peopl were on it ground . `` i am a sick man with a heart condit and high blood pressur and diabet - i can not leav , '' one elderli man told the bbc . `` i ' m stay here and wait for the merci of god , whether i live or die . '' addit report by muath al khatib and by bbc arab ' s soha ibrahim verif by richard irvin - brown , bbc verifi visual journal and design by gerri fletcher , lilli huynh and zoe bartholomew .