french polic have kill a man after a synagogu wa set on fire in the north - western citi of rouen . the man wa arm with a knife and a metal tool and wa shot after he threaten offic , the rouen prosecutor said . rouen mayor nicola mayer - rossignol said the attack on the synagogu did not just affect the jewish commun , but the entir citi wa `` batter and in shock `` . french report say the suspect wa algerian and wa appeal against an order to leav franc . polic were call at around 06 : 45 ( 04 : 45 gmt ) after smoke wa seen rise from the synagogu . the attack climb on a larg wast bin and threw a petrol bomb through a small window , set the synagogu alight . two polic offic reach the scene fast , after the man wa spot on secur camera . the suspect wa on the roof of the synagogu when they arriv , accord to prosecutor . after threaten the pair he threw a chisel at them befor jump down to the ground , brandish a 25cm ( 10in ) knife . '' the offic open fire five time , hit the individu four time , '' said rouen public prosecutor frédéric teillet , explain that he had seen the footag on the secur camera . firefight at the scene eventu brought the fire under control insid the synagogu in the histor centr of the citi . there appear to be no victim other than the arm man , the mayor said . damag insid the synagogu ha been describ as signific . `` i ' m realli upset , it ' s catastroph , '' said natacha benhaïm , the head of rouen ' s jewish commun of some 150 famili . the wall and furnitur had been left blacken by the fire , although `` the torah scroll , the holi book , did not come to ani harm `` . inspect the damag insid the synagogu , rabbi shmouel lubecki said the citi ' s small commun wa devast by the attack . '' the messag the commun need to hear is we mustn ' t give up . we must be abl to practis our judaism in complet freedom ; antisemit can not destroy us . `` he told bfmtv . `` so we ' re ask the commun to light the candl thi sabbath even and come to the synagogu if you can . '' mr teillet said two investig were under way - into an arson attack on a place of worship and into the use of a polic weapon outsid the build . although the offic wa current in custodi , the prosecutor said that video footag indic he had use hi gun `` accord to condit allow by the intern secur code `` . interior minist gérald darmanin visit the synagogu and prais polic for their fast respons and their courag in tackl the attack . '' i want to reiter , on thi sabbath even , that at the interior ministri we are extrem determin to protect franc ' s entir jewish commun , wherev they are , and that they must practis their religion without fear . '' littl is known about the suspect attack , who wa not carri ani form of ident at the time . french media report that he wa a 29 - year - old algerian who wa in the process of appeal against an expuls order from french author . franc , in common with the rest of western europ , ha seen a surg in antisemit sinc hama attack southern israel last octob lead to the current war in gaza . earlier thi week a memori in pari that honour 3 , 900 men and women who help rescu jew dure the nazi occup of franc in world war two wa daub with red - paint hand . presid emmanuel macron said defac the wall undermin the memori of franc ' s hero and it victim of the holocaust . franc ha the third largest jewish commun in the world , after israel and the us . the head of franc ' s council of jewish institut ( crif ) , yonathan arfi , said that `` set a synagogu on fire - that ' s intend to intimid everi jew `` . anoth lead figur in the jewish commun , eli korchia , thank polic for their quick respons to `` a new antisemit drama in our countri `` . the presid of rouen ' s union of muslim , imam bachar el sayidi , visit the synagogu on friday in a messag of solidar : `` we firmli condemn what ha happen . if a mosqu wa attack it would be no differ . '' rouen ' s place of worship have come under attack in the past . eight year ago a priest wa fatal stab while lead a church servic . the latest violenc come day after gunmen shot dead two prison offic in an ambush at a motorway toll south of the citi . convict prison moham amra escap dure the attack and hi still on the run .