french intellig offici believ russia is behind a stunt in which five coffin drape in a french flag and bear the inscript “ french soldier of ukrain ” were deposit near the eiffel tower . three men were seen arriv in a van at about 09 : 00 ( 07 : 00 gmt ) on saturday . the coffin that they left were later found to contain sack of plaster . polic rapidli apprehend the driver , who claim he had been paid € 40 ( £ 34 ) by the two other to transport the coffin . he himself had arriv in pari onli the day befor from bulgaria . later , polic caught the two other at berci coach station in central pari , where they were allegedli plan to board a bu to berlin . they told polic they had been paid € 400 to deposit the coffin , accord to french media . polic said the driver wa bulgarian and the two other were ukrainian and german . they were taken befor a judg on sunday , ahead of the expect open of a judici investig for “ violenc with premedit `` , the prosecutor ’ s offic said . offici said that investig were under way “ to see if thi wa organis from abroad `` . the circumst recal two recent episod in which french polic believ russian agent may have been involv . both appear to have been attempt to manipul public opinion . in octob – not long after hama carri out an unpreced attack on israel , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take hundr of hostag - star of david reminisc of the isra flag were stencil on sever wall in pari . a moldovan coupl wa arrest , who french offici believ were paid by russian intellig . last month , red hand were paint on a holocaust memori in pari , and polic believ the perpetr fled abroad . accord to le mond newspap , quot a sourc in the investig , one of the individu held on saturday had been in telephon contact with a bulgarian suspect want for the red - hand affair . le mond name thi suspect as 34 year - old georgi f . moscow react angrili last month to presid emmanuel macron ’ s repeat refus to rule out send soldier to ukrain . last week , ukrainian offici confirm that discuss had been held over the despatch of french militari instructor . thi could provid the context for the coffin affair , investig think , with russian intellig seek to show that there is big opposit to deeper french involv in the ukrain war . in both the star of david and red - hand affair , the team includ a photograph whose pictur subsequ appear on internet site link to russian propaganda .