women from differ religion have said that sing togeth in a choir ha help them gain new perspect and “ creat bond ” . trubi abraham women ' s choir ha 30 member and perform song from judaism , islam and christian . the group will appear at an interfaith ramadan event , the great get togeth iftar , on sunday in milton keyn . the choir ' s founder , kurshida mizra , said the group had also help member to work through “ the terribl , emot `` period surround the israel - gaza conflict . `` we ’ ve sat in a room togeth and manag to find word to talk about it , without ever feel that we ’ re not love by each other . “ it ’ s been much easier than you think becaus we came togeth accept there is so much that unit us . '' we ’ re go through a terribl emot time ... but our group bring togeth women from these three differ faith , '' ms mirza said . ms mirza , who also set up the interfaith café trubi garden tearoom in milton keyn , said she wa inspir by earli memori of attend islam mawlid gather . “ i rememb enjoy them veri much and i learn a lot from the act of sing . “ in all of our religion there is a rich tradit of recit and sing . if you recit the quran , it ’ s veri melod , ” she said . the choir wa initi fund to creat a sound piec explor women ' s spiritu experi . '' our voic are not heard in the faith set , it ’ s a veri male - domin perspect , '' said ms mirza . after the fund end , the member want to continu the choir . “ they found it made them happi , they bond , learn from each other ’ s perspect . it creat a lot of friendship . ” gill barstow , 65 , said she “ absolut love sing ” . she attend the church of jesu christ of latter - day saint and wa “ alway veri keen to find out about other religion and creat uniti ” . ms barstow said that at first , “ it may seem the person is quit differ – they have differ practic or way of worship ” . “ but when you get under the surfac , there is so much more that connect peopl of faith than differ . it ' s uplift to meet anoth person who worship the same god i do , but in a differ way , ” she ad . ms barstow said she wa “ quit proud ” of herself for manag to sing in hebrew and arab . she describ “ a sort of energi and cooper ” in the choir , as well as a spiritu connect . “ i often feel the spirit veri strongli when i sing – sometim i ' m half way through a song and i feel like cri . a lot of song are like poem and prayer realli , ” she said . asma moustaoui , 33 , said belong to the choir wa “ mental , physic and spiritu benefici ” . “ it ’ s a breather to sit with women who share the same valu and purpos , ” she said . grow up as a muslim in morocco , sing wa the norm . “ i grew up sing burda and in women ’ s group . i wa a profession quran recit . it wa a form of spiritu connect – with famili , faith and women . ” but after move to the uk , ms moustaoui said she felt “ isol ” from that heritag , and start to `` lose connect ” with her faith . so the women ’ s choir wa “ ideal ” , and with her degre in linguist , she ha been abl to translat and teach member how to sing in other languag . “ it ' s beauti to see how mani word are similar in the differ languag . i ' ve never sung in english befor thi . “ you learn from the other , you learn new way to sing a song that you ’ ve done your whole life . peopl bring a differ spirit to it , ” she said . lynda gilbert , 68 , said the choir had help her to “ hang onto hope ” in the face of the conflict in the middl east . ms gilbert , who is a member of the milton keyn and district reform synagogu , said it wa “ realli import for jewish women to stand alongsid christian and muslim women and sing togeth for peac ” . “ if we can come togeth and sing togeth , then it ’ s possibl in the middl east too . we can keep hold of that dream and it keep us from feel despair . ” she said that while some “ divis ” had spill over into british societi , “ in group like our we ’ re push back against that `` . `` we are forg bond between women , but also between these three faith that have so much in common with each other . `` we ' re not opposit , we ’ re all one , unit . ” follow east of england news on facebook , instagram and x . got a stori ? email eastofenglandnew @ bbc . co . uk or whatsapp us on 0800 169 1830