four hostag kidnap by hama have been reunit with their famili , after be rescu in a raid that palestinian offici say kill score of peopl . noa argamani , 26 , almog meir jan , 22 , andrei kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 , were freed on saturday , eight month sinc be kidnap from the nova music festiv on 7 octob . isra forc , back by air strike , fought intens gun battl with hama in the nuseirat area , in what the israel defens forc call a `` high - risk , complex mission `` . palestinian offici say women and children were among those kill in the militari assault . two hospit in gaza , al - aqsa hospit and al - awda hospit , said they had count 70 bodi between them , while hama ' s govern media offic said at least 210 peopl had been kill in isra strike in and around the al - nuseirat refuge camp . israel estim there were fewer than 100 casualti , idf spokesman daniel hagari said . imag from the area show intens bombard , and hospit there said they were overwhelm with casualti , includ children , and that they were unabl to treat everyon . other photo show peopl mourn the dead . the rare rescu of hostag - a joint oper conduct by the idf , israel secur agenc and israel polic - come eight month into war with hama in gaza . idf spokesman daniel hagari said the mission wa base on `` precis `` intellig and the hostag were freed from two separ build in nuseirat . isra forc came under fire dure the oper , he said . one special forc offic wa wound in the gaza hostag rescu and later die in hospit , isra polic said . the idf said the releas hostag were all in good health , and they were later pictur embrac famili member at a medic centr near tel aviv . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu prais isra forc for oper `` creativ and brave `` . '' we will not let up until we complet the mission and return home all the hostag - both those aliv and dead , '' he ad . defenc minist yoav gallant said special forc oper `` under heavi fire `` when rescu the four hostag . '' thi is one of the most heroic and extraordinari oper i have wit over the cours of 47 year serv in israel ’ s defenc establish , '' mr gallant said . the us also provid intellig support to israel in the raid , accord to the bbc ' s partner cb news which cite two american offici . they ad that us forc did not take part in the oper and the temporari pier in gaza - which ha now resum aid deliveri after be damag by heavi sea - wa not use in the oper . miss argamani , a chines - born isra citizen , wa kidnap from the nova festiv and harrow video footag from 7 octob show the 26 - year - old be taken away on the back of a motorbik scream , `` don ' t kill me ! '' fresh video of her be reunit with her father , smile and embrac him on board a vehicl , wa broadcast soon after news of the rescu oper on saturday . mr kozlov , a russian who move to israel in 2022 , and mr ziv had both been work as secur guard at the festiv when they were kidnap . mr jan had been due to start a job at a larg tech compani the day after he wa kidnap . the hostag famili forum headquart , a group repres the famili of the hostag , describ the rescu as “ a miracul triumph ” and thank the idf for the “ heroic oper ” . the group ad : “ the isra govern must rememb it commit to bring back all 120 hostag still held by hama — the live for rehabilit , the murder for burial . ” while there wa jubil in israel , imag and video show death , injuri and destruct in the area , includ around the al - nuseirat refuge camp . accord to bbc verifi , it appear that isra strike took place across sever locat in central gaza , but nuseirat - the locat of the idf oper to releas four hostag - seem to have been hit hardest . one video from the al - aqsa hospit show numer peopl with injuri lie on the floor , while other video show a frequent stream of new patient be driven in by car and ambul and carri into the build . the hama govern media offic said at least 400 were wound in the dens - popul area . palestinian presid mahmoud abba ha call for an emerg unit nation secur council session to discuss what he ha call `` the bloodi massacr that wa carri out by the isra forc `` in and around the al - nuseirat refuge camp . the european union ' s high repres for foreign affair , josep borrel said on x : `` report from gaza of anoth massacr of civilian are appal . '' we condemn thi in the strongest term . the bloodbath must end immedi . '' the rescu of hostag come amid effort for a ceasefir and hostag releas deal between israel and hama . mr netanyahu ha been urg to reach an agreement but face opposit from far - right alli who say militari action is the onli way to bring the hostag back . saturday ’ s oper is the most success rescu of hostag by the isra militari in thi war – and could chang the calcul of a prime minist who is under increas pressur . isra war cabinet minist benni gantz cancel a news confer which had been schedul for saturday . it come amid specul mr gantz would quit have previous threaten to resign from the war cabinet if mr netanyahu did not approv a post - war plan for gaza by 8 june . world leader , includ us presid joe biden , franc ' s emmanuel macron and german chancellor olaf scholz have welcom the news of the hostag rescu . in respons to the militari offens in nuseirat , hama polit leader ismail haniyeh said israel could not forc it choic on the group . he said the group would not agre to a ceasefir deal unless it achiev secur for palestinian . dure it 7 octob attack in southern israel hama kill about 1 , 200 peopl and took some 251 peopl . some 116 remain in the palestinian territori , includ 41 the armi say are dead . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 hostag in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . on saturday , the hama - run health ministri said the death toll in gaza is now 36 , 801 peopl .