the un say a new land rout ha been use to deliv food to northern gaza for the first time in three week . the isra militari said six lorri from the world food programm cross via a gate in the gaza border fenc . tuesday night ' s deliveri wa `` part of a pilot to prevent hama from take over the aid `` , it ad . it come amid global pressur on israel to allow more access to the palestinian territori for aid amid a loom famin as it continu it war on hama . a boat carri 200 tonn of food aid for distribut by a chariti also set sail from cypru on tuesday , inaugur a new maritim corridor into the palestinian territori . it is expect to arriv on thursday off gaza ' s coast , where a jetti is be built . senior un offici welcom the initi , but note that `` for aid deliveri at scale there is no meaning substitut to the mani land rout and entri point from israel into gaza `` . israel insist there are no limit to the amount of aid that can be deliv into and across gaza and blame un agenc for fail to distribut suppli . the war began when hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 31 , 200 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say . the un say at least 576 , 000 palestinian in gaza - one quarter of the popul - are one step away from famin . it warn that time is run out for the estim 300 , 000 peopl with littl food or clean water in the north of the territori , which un agenc have struggl to access for sever month . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri say 27 peopl , includ 23 children , have die as a result of malnutrit and dehydr at hospit there . un offici said the world food programm ( wfp ) convoy wa abl to use an isra militari road that run along the gaza border fenc to reach the north and deliv enough food for 25 , 000 peopl - about 88 tonn of food parcel and wheat flour - to gaza citi after nightfal on tuesday . wfp spokeswoman shaza moghrabi said the deliveri prove that `` move food by road is possibl `` . `` we are hope to scale up , we need access to be regular and consist especi with peopl in northern gaza on the brink of famin , '' she told reuter news agenc . `` we need entri point directli to the north . '' isra secur offici carri out a prior secur check on the aid lorri at the kerem shalom cross with southern gaza , the militari said , ad that the pilot ' s result would be present to govern offici . `` we are constantli tri to find creativ way to maintain the flow of humanitarian suppli into gaza , '' militari spokesman lt col peter lerner wrote on x , formerli twitter . white hous nation secur advis jake sullivan said on tuesday that the us wa `` work with the isra to increas the throughput of humanitarian assist by ground , both through kerem shalom and through a new cross where we had the first truck get in last night `` . `` we need to see more where that came from , '' he ad . almost all of the limit aid that ha reach northern gaza ha been deliv via the isra - control kerem shalom and the egyptian - control rafah cross , which are in southern gaza , and then distribut by lorri . howev , the un say `` ongo fight and isra bombard , as well as insecur , frequent border closur and access constraint `` have imped safe and effici aid oper . on 20 februari , the wfp said it had been forc to suspend aid deliveri to the north after it first convoy in three week wa surround by hungri crowd close to an isra checkpoint and then face gunfir in gaza citi . nine day later , more than 100 peopl were kill tri to reach an aid convoy south - west of gaza citi , accord to gaza ' s health ministri . palestinian said most were shot by isra troop overse the deliveri , but the isra militari said most were kill in a stamped or run over . last week , the wfp attempt to resum deliveri to the north , but said a convoy wa `` turn back `` by isra forc befor be loot by a crowd . isra offici said the convoy arriv two hour befor the co - ordin time and that it decid not to proceed on it own initi . western and arab countri have also carri out more than 30 airdrop sinc the start of the war , mostli over northern gaza . howev , they are consid ineffect and costli , and last week five peopl were reportedli kill north of gaza citi due to the malfunct of a parachut on one airdrop packag . in addit to the cypru - gaza maritim corridor , the us militari is plan to build a float harbour off gaza ' s coast and a pier to transport suppli to the shore . it could take up to 60 day to becom oper . as gaza ' s humanitarian crisi deepen , qatari and egyptian mediat say they are continu to push for a truce between israel and hama . tension also remain high in occupi east jerusalem and the west bank . overnight , at least five palestinian , includ two children , were reportedli kill by isra secur forc .