benjamin netanyahu ha vow israel can `` stand alon `` , after the us warn arm shipment could be stop if he order a full - scale invas of rafah in gaza . thousand of peopl have alreadi fled the southern citi after the isra militari began what it call a `` limit `` oper on monday . us presid joe biden ha repeatedli warn against the oper , say that it would cross a `` red line `` . but mr netanyahu dismiss the us warn , say israel would fight on . `` if we need to ... we will stand alon . i have said that if necessari we will fight with our fingernail , '' the prime minist said . mr netanyahu also invok the war of 1948 - where the newli form state of israel wa attack by a coalit of arab state - to dismiss the us warn . `` in the war of independ 76 year ago , we were the few against the mani , '' he said . `` we did not have weapon . there wa an arm embargo on israel , but with great strength of spirit , heroism and uniti among us - we were victori . '' despit mr netanyahu ' s comment , hi govern ha come under pressur after the us suspend the deliveri of 1 , 800 2 , 000lb ( 907kg ) bomb and 1 , 700 500lb bomb over fear that they could caus civilian death in rafah . mr biden went further still in an interview with cnn on wednesday , say that if the attack went ahead he would further suspend suppli of artilleri shell and other weapon . yoav gallant , mr netanyahu ' s defenc minist , dismiss the us warn , say israel ' s `` enemi as well as ... best of friend `` should understand that hi countri `` can not be subdu `` . `` we will stand strong , we will achiev our goal , '' he ad . the comment came hour after the un said more than 80 , 000 peopl had fled rafah sinc monday amid constant bombard and as isra tank mass close to built - up area . the un also warn that food and fuel were run out for the more than one million still shelter in the citi , becaus it wa not receiv aid through nearbi cross . isra troop took control and close the rafah cross with egypt at the start of their oper , while the un said it wa too danger for it staff and lorri to reach the reopen kerem shalom cross with israel . isra forc said they were conduct `` target raid `` against hama element remain in the citi . howev , the isra govern ha refus to rule out a full scale invas , lead to mr biden ' s warn he would not suppli it with the munit to do so . white hous nation secur spokesman john kirbi said mr biden did not believ `` smash into rafah `` would advanc israel ' s object of defeat hama . `` an endur defeat of hama certainli remain the isra goal , and we share that goal with them , '' mr kirbi said . `` the argument that somehow we ' re walk away from israel , or we ' re not will to help them defeat hama just doesn ' t comport with the fact , '' he said . palestinian media said two peopl were kill on thursday afternoon in an isra air strike in the al - jneineh neighbourhood of rafah - one of the eastern area which the israel defens forc ( idf ) order resid to evacu befor begin it ground oper began on monday night . anoth three peopl were reportedli kill in an air strike in the nearbi brazil area , which is not in the evacu zone but is next to the egyptian border . hama and palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) - which are proscrib as terrorist organis by israel , the us and other countri - said they were target isra forc on the eastern outskirt with mortar bomb and anti - tank missil . hama also said it had blown up a boobi - trap tunnel east of rafah underneath three isra militari vehicl . the idf said three of it soldier were moder wound as a result of the explos . overnight , at least five peopl were reportedli kill when a famili ' s home in the western tal al - sultan neighbourhood wa hit in an isra strike . they includ three children , one of them a one - year - old infant , medic said . meanwhil hope of a peac deal - which seem close earlier in the week befor israel said it did not past muster - appear to be fade . both isra and hama deleg left indirect talk in cairo on thursday . after seven month of war in gaza , israel insist victori is imposs without take the citi of rafah and elimin the last remain hama battalion . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag , accord to isra author . more than 34 , 900 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . israel say 128 hostag are unaccount for , 36 of whom are presum dead .