us offici say israel hit iran with a missil in the earli hour of friday , in what appear to have been a retaliatori strike after week of escal tension between the two countri . there are compet claim about the scale of the attack on the isfahan region and the extent of ani damag , with iranian state media downplay it signific . it come after week of soar tension between the region rival , which have alreadi seen an isra attack on an iranian compound in syria , and iran launch an unpreced assault against israel . here is everyth we know about the latest incid so far . israel doe not routin confirm it militari action , which have target iranian - back arm group in syria and iraq on mani occas . howev , us offici have confirm to the bbc ' s partner cb news that an isra missil did hit iran . us sourc say a missil wa involv in the attack , while iran say it involv small drone . iran ' s govern tightli control access to the countri . the bbc doe not have direct access to the central region of isfahan , where thi incid play out overnight . so far , there ha been a lot of specul regard the type of missil use . bbc verifi ha tri to identifi the weapon by analys imag of wreckag post from an area in neighbour iraq , 60km ( 45 mile ) south - west of the capit baghdad . among expert , there now seem to be a wider consensu in think that a two - stage missil wa use - and wa probabl air - launch . mani identifi the debri with isra - produc blue sparrow missil . justin crump , a former british armi offic who run risk intellig compani sibyllin , agre that the debri seen in the pictur wa probabl from a missil booster `` with the warhead have detach and presum gone on to achiev it mission - thi is the motor which fall to earth `` . `` the booster ha attach point typic use to connect to an aircraft and it gener size suggest it may have been an air - launch system , '' crump said . although we can not yet independ verifi the exact type of missil , it is known that israel ha develop thi type of weapon . `` israel ha previous use such weapon in syria , so thi is well within their capabl , '' crump ad . some iranian offici and media have confirm there wa an attempt strike but are downplay the signific of it . there have been no report of casualti . iran ' s far news agenc say explos were heard near an armi base and air defenc system were activ . explos heard in the isfahan area were `` due to air defenc fire at suspici object `` and there wa no damag , a state media channel quot a gener as say . the semi - offici tasnim news agenc , which is close to the power islam revolut guard corp militari wing , post a video of a nuclear facil in isfahan which did not show ani sign it had been hit . the intern atom energi agenc ha confirm there wa no damag to iran ' s nuclear site . hossein dalirian , a spokesman for iran ' s nation centr of cyberspac , said there had been `` no air attack from outsid border `` . he said israel had `` onli made a fail and humili attempt to fli quadcopt [ drone ] '' which had been shot down . iran impos restrict on commerci flight in the hour immedi after the strike but they have now been lift . explos were also report overnight in iraq and syria - where arm group back by iran oper - but it is unclear if they were directli link to the isfahan strike . the syrian defenc ministri said an air defenc site in the south of syria had been hit by an isra missil in the earli hour of friday morn local time . israel ha not confirm it wa behind the strike . isfahan provinc is a larg area in the centr of iran which take it name from it largest citi . the region is home to signific iranian militari infrastructur , includ a larg air base , a major missil product complex and sever nuclear facil . israel would usual tell the us in advanc about militari action , but itali ' s foreign minist antonio tajani told report at the g7 meet in capri that washington had onli been `` inform at the veri last minut `` . speak at the summit , us secretari of state antoni blinken refus to be drawn on the attack , say onli that the us had `` not been involv in ani offens oper `` . thi latest strike come less than a week after iran launch hundr of missil and drone at israel , an incid seen as a dramat escal in tension . despit it vast scale and unpreced natur , iran ' s attack wa larg unsuccess , with the vast major of projectil shot down by isra air defenc with the help of the us , uk and other alli . that unpreced attack on isra soil wa in respons to a strike against a build on an iranian diplomat compound in syria on 1 april . israel ha not publicli confirm it wa behind that strike either , but it is wide accept that it wa . the full signific of thi latest strike is still becom clear and it is not yet known whether iran will seek to respond . bbc secur correspond frank garden describ the scale of friday ' s attack as limit and potenti design to ensur the conflict goe no further . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu will come under compet pressur from some of hi own gener and polit alli to push back against iran , accord to bbc intern editor jeremi bowen . israel ha come under huge intern pressur from the us and other western alli not to take ani action which risk turn the long - run proxi war between the two middl east rival into a direct conflict . thi flare - up in hostil come against the backdrop of the war in gaza , where the isra militari is fight iran - back hama . some of the respons from within israel have highlight the countri ' s polit divis . ultranationalist secur minist itamar ben gvir describ the strike on iran as `` feebl `` or `` lame `` . in respons , isra opposit leader yair lapid call for him to be sack , and said hi remark had ridicul and embarrass israel . the uk govern said it would not specul on the strike , but said israel should avoid `` signific escal `` while exercis it `` right to self - defenc `` . european commiss presid ursula von der leyen call on all side to refrain from further action . there are concern a worsen conflict in the middl east could disrupt oil suppli . brent crude , the intern benchmark for oil price , rose by 1 . 8 % to $ 88 a barrel after the attack . oil price had jump by as much as 3 . 5 % initi but the price stabilis when it becam clearer the strike wa limit . the price of gold - which is often seen as a safe invest at time of uncertainti - briefli came close to a record high befor fall back to nearli $ 2 , 400 an ounc .