a un human right expert say she believ israel ha commit `` act of genocid `` in gaza . francesca albanes , the un special rapporteur on human right in the occupi palestinian territori , present her report to un member state in geneva on tuesday . but israel ha alreadi dismiss her find . thi come amid grow intern pressur on israel to stop the war or to do much more to protect civilian . ms albanes conclud that `` there are reason ground to believ that the threshold indic the commiss of the crime of genocid against palestinian as a group in gaza ha been met `` . befor ms albanes even got to her feet , her find had been dismiss by israel , whose ambassador describ it as `` an outrag distort of the genocid convent `` . israel ha for year been anger by the un human right council ' s agenda , which perman devot an entir section - item 7 - to scrutini of the situat in `` palestin and the other occupi arab territori `` . the agenda item wa approv not by the un itself , but by un member state , decad ago , and ha never expir . no other countri in the world ha perman scrutini like thi , and israel view it as discriminatori , and aim at delegitimis israel . it refus to attend the council when item 7 is under discuss . but mani countri , in particular those in the middl east , argu that the situat - in the absenc of self - determin for palestinian through a two - state solut - requir ongo investig , and now that there is anoth conflict , all the more so . sinc hama ' s brutal attack on israel on 7 octob , ms albanes ha call for the releas of the hostag , and doe so again in thi report . in it she `` firmli condemn the crime commit by hama and other palestinian arm group in israel on 7 octob `` . but she ha also been outspoken in her critic of israel ' s conduct of the war in gaza . that ' s whi her report ha been await with both impati , and trepid . ms albanes ' s choic of a titl for it : ' anatomi of a genocid ' wa not exactli diplomat . mani member state , especi those tradit support of israel , will be uncomfort . but un special rapporteur , while task by the un to examin and advis on specif situat , are independ of it . genocid is a specif legal term , and ms albanes ' s report suggest some of the legal criteria have been fulfil . she cite what she say appear to be israel ' s intent to destroy palestinian as a group `` in whole or in part `` , a key claus in the convent against genocid . she mention in particular three element which point to possibl genocid : the death toll in gaza , current well over 32 , 000 accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri , the bomb of dens popul area , and the restrict on aid suppli ( which , the un say , have brought gaza to the brink of famin ) , are all proof , the report claim , of intent to destroy the group . basel alsourani , of the palestinian centr for human right , welcom the report . he suggest intern law had been violat by all side in thi conflict , but argu that genocid wa such a seriou crime the intern commun could not ignor it . `` allow genocid to happen doesn ' t onli affect palestinian … , it affect all human be around the world , '' he said . `` if now israel is commit genocid without account , tomorrow we don ' t know which countri will claim that genocid ha been commit by israel , and [ therefor ] i can commit genocid with no account . '' tala nasir , a palestinian human right lawyer who also travel to geneva to hear the report , hope it would draw more attent to the fate of what she said were thousand of peopl detain by israel sinc 7 octob . `` they have arrest more than 7 , 700 palestinian , '' she said . `` eighti per cent of them are be held under administr detent which mean they are not present ani charg against them . '' their famili , she point out , had no contact with them , and no idea where they were . not surprisingli , isra diplomat are angri . it ambassador to the un in geneva , meirav eilon shahar , describ the report as `` an obscen invers of realiti `` , and accus ms albanes of question israel ' s right to exist . mani isra , too , are like to be shock . and the suggest of genocid , toward a state which wa found as a direct result of nazi germani ' s genocid of jew , will caus deep offenc . in the wake of 7 octob attack , and the fact that so mani isra famili are still wait for news of love one taken hostag , hear such outspoken condemn is hard . noam peri , whose father chaim wa taken hostag , also travel to geneva . her focu , natur , is that her father not be forgotten . `` my father wa kidnap from hi own home , '' she said . `` he ' s an 80 - year - old person that wa sit in hi home with my mother , and he wa brutal taken from there , and ha essenti disappear sinc . he ha no commun , with no - one in the world . '' but , as thi week ' s vote for an immedi ceasefir at the un secur council show , member state are grow impati with israel ' s conduct of the war . too mani well - respect un aid agenc have warn that nowher in gaza is safe , that famili are now eat anim feed , or grass , that amput are be perform on children without anaesthet . they all say israel is restrict vital aid suppli , and govern have begun to doubt israel ' s claim that the un is to blame for the delay . mani will not like francesca albanes ' s choic of word , but the content of her report will add to the pressur on israel to chang it strategi .