a secur guard thrust open the door of antoni blinken ' s armour car and the us secretari of state strode out down a line of yellow barricad . `` we ' re work to get them home , '' he declar , grip the hand of isra protest in tel aviv call for a deal to releas the hostag held by hama . it wa a strike moment but not altogeth spontan . the street had by now been buzz with secur offici readi hi rout toward the protest . those of us in the travel press were told to expect the interact in the 20 minut or so lead up to it . it wa firmli caught on camera . thi wa a strong messag from america ' s top diplomat to both the isra public and it prime minist - the us wa commit , engag and push everyth to get a ceasefir - for - hostag - releas deal over the line . in other word the messag is : the us is tri to stop the war - albeit with firm condit . washington ha been under grow domest and intern pressur due to the unpreced crisi unfold in gaza and the catastroph high number of civilian kill . presid joe biden and mr blinken have spent week now publicli ramp up pressur on israel to surg more aid in , and they want to develop a plan to secur the territori ' s long - term futur . but as the crisi deepen , the limit of american influenc have becom increasingli clear . just hour befor the moment film at the barricad , the us had resort to a vote in the un secur council to tri to shape the action of it alli . thi wa a sign of presid biden ' s grow exasper . the american - draft text call on israel to surg more aid into gaza amid un warn of immin famin . it endors the current process mediat by qatar to get a ceasefir in return for the releas of hostag by hama . but it also warn israel against a militari assault on the citi of rafah , home to more than 1 . 4 million displac palestinian , say an offens could violat intern humanitarian law . the resolut fail . it wa veto by russia and china . speak at ben gurion airport on friday afternoon , mr blinken castig those who vote it down . he impli they did so for reason that had noth to do with the substanc , while also warn that a rafah offens could leav israel without intern support . `` it risk kill more civilian , it risk wreak greater havoc with the provis of humanitarian assist , it risk further isol israel around the world and jeopardis it long term secur and stand , '' he said . amid the grow rift between washington and the isra leader , mr netanyahu struck back at mr blinken ' s assess . `` i told him i hope we ' ll do it with the support of the unit state , '' said the prime minist , `` but if we have to , we ' ll do it alon `` . thi wa a superpow be push back , despit it pressur . i ' ve seen the phenomen forc of us diplomaci at close quarter thi week , trail mr blinken on a time - zone shatter tour of europ , asia and end in the middl east tri to stem the current crisi . to america ' s critic the paradox is clear : the us is send weapon to a key alli , while at the same time urg it , without success , to do much more to allevi the civilian suffer the militari action ha unleash . a un - back food secur assess thi week said 1 . 1 million peopl in gaza were struggl with catastroph hunger and starvat , ad that a man - made famin in the north wa immin between now and may . a grow number of us politician have also spoken out . thi week a group of democrat senat and nearli 70 former us offici , diplomat and militari offic said presid biden should consid cut weapon suppli to israel if it keep restrict humanitarian aid to gaza . israel blame the un for a failur to distribut suppli . the un categor reject thi but israel insist that checkpoint restrict and attack on polic secur aid convoy have been a necessari part of it campaign to elimin hama . i ask mr blinken in manilla whether the secur vacuum in gaza wa a harbing of it futur . how could he convinc israel to accept the hi propos ? hama could end the suffer tomorrow , he said , if it surrend . but he reiter that more humanitarian aid had to be allow in . answer my question , he gave a us endors for the first time to a un - back measur on hunger , say `` 100 % of the popul in gaza is at sever level of acut food insecur . that ' s the first time an entir popul ha been so classifi . '' much of mr blinken ' s trip wa crisi manag . tri to get aid into gaza , get the hostag out and secur an end to the conflict , which the us say must ensur hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob `` can never happen again `` . at the same time it is tri to shape a post - war futur . washington want the palestinian author run gaza . it is the entiti form dure the 1990 oslo accord and driven out of gaza by hama in 2007 . the american think they can patch togeth a grand bargain for the middl east . they want to pursu the long sought - after independ state for palestinian in the west bank , east jerusalem and gaza - albeit demilitaris - alongsid a secur israel : the so - call two - state solut . gaza , rebuilt , would be govern by the intern - back palestinian author , which is revitalis with money and secur forc train by arab state , includ saudi arabia . ad to thi riyadh would recognis israel , a long - sought after goal for the isra that would further integr it into the region . in return the saudi would get advanc american weapon , a secur pact with washington and a us - back civilian nuclear power programm . it sound imposs ambiti , and perhap it is . the american are not naiv about the chanc of achiev the most illus of goal in the middl east , amid some of the worst bloodsh in the region ' s modern histori . but just as he did at the barricad , mr blinken think he can use a moment of crisi to grasp the initi .