after month of warn , a recent un - back report offer hard statist evid that the humanitarian catastroph in gaza is turn into a man - made famin . it ha increas the pressur on israel to fulfil it legal respons to protect palestinian civilian , and to allow adequ suppli of humanitarian aid to reach the peopl who need it . the un ' s most senior human right offici , volker tã¼rk , said in a bbc interview that israel bore signific blame , and that there wa a `` plausibl `` case that israel wa use starvat as a weapon of war in gaza . mr tã¼rk , who is the un high commission for human right , said that if intent wa proven , that would amount to a war crime . israel ' s economi minist , nir barkat , a senior politician in benjamin netanyahu ' s likud parti , dismiss mr tã¼rk ' s warn as `` total nonsens - a total irrespons thing to say `` . like hi cabinet colleagu , mr barkat insist that israel wa let in all the aid offer by the us and the rest of the world . israel say the un fail to distribut whatev is left onc hama ha help itself . but a long line of lorri fulli load with aid suppli desper need in the gaza strip is back up on the egyptian side of the border with rafah . they can onli enter gaza after a complex and bureaucrat seri of isra check . the absenc of adequ suppli ha forc jordan , and now other countri includ the us and uk , to drop aid from the air - the least effect way to deliv humanitarian suppli . palestinian on the ground fight to secur a share have drown as they tri to swim to pallet that have land in the sea , or have been crush when parachut fail . the us navi is also send an engin flotilla across the atlant to build a temporari pier to land aid by sea . none of that would be necessari if israel grant full road access to gaza and expedit the deliveri of relief suppli through the modern contain port at ashdod , onli about half an hour ' s drive north of the gaza strip . in an interview from geneva , mr tã¼rk said evid had emerg that israel wa slow down or withhold the deliveri of aid . mr tã¼rk condemn the hama attack on isra civilian and soldier on 7 octob , includ kill , rape and hostag - take . but he also said that no side in the war should evad account for it action , includ for ani attempt to withhold aid suppli from the peopl who need it in gaza . `` all of my humanitarian colleagu keep tell us that there is a lot of red tape . there are obstacl . there are hindrancesâ €¦ israel is to blame in a signific way , '' he said . `` i can onli say the fact speak for themselvesâ €¦ i understand that thi need to be control , but it can not take day for it to be done . `` when you put all kind of requir on the tabl that are unreason in an emergencyâ €¦ that bring up the question , with all the restrict that we current see , whether there is a plausibl claim to be made that starvat is , or may be use as , a weapon of war . '' concern about humanitarian catastroph in the gaza strip deepen last week with the releas of a soberli written commentari alongsid a seri of map , chart and statist . it prompt more warn from israel ' s alli that it should chang the way it is fight the war against hama to spare civilian from death from either high explos or hunger . the studi is the latest report from a respect intern network , the integr food secur phase classif , known as ipc . it provid govern , the un and aid agenc with apolit data to measur the scale of hunger . the headlin on the report wa stark - `` gaza strip : famin is immin as 1 . 1 million peopl , half of gaza , experi catastroph food insecur . '' it data explain how famin could come at ani time in the next eight week or so if there wa no ceasefir and relief aid did not pour into the gaza strip . palestinian parent who had manag to bring sick and hungri children to one of the few hospit still oper in gaza after israel ' s onslaught did not have to wait for the statist . for week and month , as they struggl to feed them , they have watch their children declin . gaza is no place to be ill . one young girl at the hospit , reach by a palestinian freelanc journalist work for the bbc , lay semi - consciou on a bed . the girl , noora moham , ha lung and liver fibrosi , condit that can be fatal even in peacetim . in the month of starvat sinc the war began , and without the right medic care , she is deterior fast . `` my daughter can ' t move , '' her mother said . `` she ' s anaem , alway sleep , and there ' s noth nutriti to eat . '' at least noora reach hospit . most of just over one million gazan consid to be in acut need will not have that option . the evid of gaza ' s humanitarian catastroph is overwhelm . our pictur from the hospit show children with swollen joint , wast limb and dermat , all classic symptom of acut malnutrit . israel ha ignor the un secur council resolut demand an immedi ceasefir . nir barkat , the isra economi minist , said that noth would be allow to get in the way of israel ' s war aim of smash hama for good and free the hostag taken on 7 octob . alli around the world , he said , support israel ' s strateg goal . when i point out mani of israel ' s friend , start with us presid joe biden , did not like the way israel wa fight the war , mr barkat wa blunt . `` that ' s tough . we are go to finish the war . we ' ll do everyth we can to kill the hama terrorist and to minimis collater damag as much as we can , '' he said . `` with all due respect , we ' re fight evil , and we expect the world to help us fight evil until we finish hama off the map . '' the un high commission for human right had a succinct respons to sting critic from israel . `` the onli thing i can say to them is that there is an emerg intern consensu , and it may not have been there befor , but it is clearli there now , includ with thi week ' s secur council resolut , on the humanitarian situat , '' mr tã¼rk said . `` the human right situat is so tragic that an immedi ceasefir is requir . that ' s my respons to that . ''