a palestinian refuge ha won a legal challeng against a home offic refus to allow hi famili in gaza to appli for uk visa without fingerprint . the man took action after offici reject hi request for hi wife and children to be exempt from the usual rule becaus of the situat in gaza . he said thi wa in effect a refus to allow hi famili to join him , becaus they had no way to submit fingerprint . a court say the home offic must allow the famili to appli without biometr . the home offic told bbc news : `` we have compli with the outcom of judici review proceed and it would be inappropri to comment further . '' a court anonym order mean the man and hi famili can not be identifi , for their own protect . he had brought a judici review against the home offic , which is a type of legal action where a person can challeng the decis of a public bodi . the judgement from the upper tribun immigr and asylum court , seen by bbc news , said the home offic ' s refus to exempt the famili from give fingerprint wa `` disproportion `` given their `` particular circumst `` . it said the decis wa also in breach of articl 8 of the european convent on human right - the right to respect for privat and famili life . the man appli for asylum in the uk in 2021 and wa grant it in 2023 , after the war in gaza had start . onc peopl have refuge statu , they can appli for famili - reunion visa for their famili member to join them in the uk without them need to go through the asylum system as well . asylum aid solicitor anastasia solopova , who is repres the famili , said they had appli for these in decemb . in most circumst , when someon appli for a long - term british visa outsid of the uk , they need to give their biometr - fingerprint and a photograph - at a visa - applic centr ( vac ) , for secur reason . as there is current no function visa centr in gaza , there wa now no way for the famili to submit their biometr , ms solopova said . in a statement to the court , the refuge said the decis from the home offic had made him feel `` like i want to die `` . two of hi children had caught hepat a , which the world health organ ( who ) say is spread in gaza . `` i want so badli to be with my wife to help her , '' he said . `` i am scare , i am fear for the live of my famili and my children , i am worri that they might die . '' even befor the current conflict , it wa not easi for palestinian to leav gaza via the rafah cross into egypt . they had to regist with the local palestinian author two to four week in advanc and may then have been reject by either the palestinian or egyptian author with littl warn or explan . and sinc the current war began , egypt ha said it is reluct to allow an influx of refuge from gaza . in novemb , the home offic said it wa work with the foreign offic to help british peopl and their non - british famili member evacu gaza through the cross . and at the time , a team of home offic staff wa help visa applic in egypt . peopl now abl to leav gaza through the cross can receiv medic , consular and administr support from british embassi staff in cairo .