it wa the third time they caught her . crouch in a shallow dip in the field , moran stella yanai knew thi time wa differ . `` i heard ' coo - coo ! ' and we rais our head up - the terrorist were stand [ there ] , smile , '' she said . `` everyon start to run , i jump and broke my leg , and they caught me . '' warn : thi articl contain detail some reader may find disturb . moran had been desper tri to hide in the spars cover of a potato field , as hama gunmen raid the site of the nova music festiv , a few mile from the gaza border . hour earlier on 7 octob , the gunmen had burst through gaza ' s perimet fenc , attack isra commun . moran had alreadi been caught twice by group of hama follow , she said , but had talk her way out by insist she wa arab , and not jewish . the third time , her captor were differ . `` they didn ' t talk , they just grab me , '' she rememb . `` they start to throw me from one to the other , and put me in the car . two terrorist in the front , four in the backseat , three more in the [ boot ] , and onli me on top of everybodi . '' as they cross the gaza border , moran glimps the crowd on the other side of the fenc , befor quickli close her eye . `` it wa like a bull be enter into a huge arena , '' she told the bbc . `` everybodi ' s happi - the children , the women , the men . it wa ton of peopl . '' she felt the car stop , and the car door open . `` i felt someon tri to pull my leg ... all you can think of at that point is : pleas let it end fast . one hit to the head , and i will not feel anyth . if it ' s happen , make it fast . '' but the car door close again , and the vehicl began to move off , carri moran with it . she say she later learn that the group hold her had sold her to hama . it wa the begin of 54 day in captiv for moran . dure that time , she wa transfer between seven differ locat , quickli learn strategi to surviv . `` you realli need to protect your stori , '' she explain . `` what happen in the first hous stay there , and doesn ' t come with you to the second hous [ or ] the third hous . '' each time , she said , it wa import to pretend that everyth in the previou locat had been fine , and that her kidnapp had been her friend . to hint at anyth sexual , she believ , would have led to the group kill both captor and captiv . at one point , she wa held with anoth woman , who wa 18 year old and kidnap while she wa barefoot and still in her pyjama . moran , who understand a littl arab , rememb overhear their captor discuss who would take the women as their wive . she said they even found the younger woman ' s mother among the other hostag and brought her in , ask for permiss to marri her daughter . `` when you move from hous to hous , you need to be ' examin ' to see that you ' re not hide someth on you , '' moran said , sarcasm tilt across her face . `` it ' s a ' realli necessari test ' , as they explain it to you . '' she look away , the silenc grow between us . `` i alway tri to explain to peopl that ' rape ' is a realli big word , '' she said . `` it ' s not onli the act . even when a guy stand in front of your door , and you ' re sit down , and he ' s stare at you for 10 minut straight , five to six time a day , everi day , for 54 day . trust me ; that ' s a rape . '' ask whether she wa the victim of sexual assault while held captiv , moran say she wa not , but that she ha heard from other women hostag that they were rape while in gaza . she describ be beaten up by her captor , and the mental terror of be powerless in a situat that could chang in a second . one day , she said , they sat down to play card with their captor . `` i wa so hungri , i wa tri to make them laugh so they would bring us someth to eat , '' she rememb . `` [ one of the captor ] wa mock me . i got angri and said someth as a joke . he run to the other room , come back , and point a gun to my head , yell at me , scream that he will kill me , will blow my head off . '' after 54 day in captiv , moran yanai wa releas in a ceasefir deal last novemb , in exchang for palestinian prison held in israel jail . her hama captor film the handov , where she and other hostag were seen smile and thank their kidnapp befor board the red cross bu out of gaza . mani peopl remark at the time that they seem well and even happi . `` they made us smile , and say thank you , '' moran said . `` nobodi heard the whisper that i ' m say to the boy next to me : hold on , five more minut , don ' t start to cri now , stay smile . '' it ' s the first time in over an hour recount her stori that moran ' s composur fractur . her tear sudden , fast and silent . the moment she cross the border to egypt , she say , wa the moment she had wait all those week in captiv to cri . `` we couldn ' t [ cri ] when they were drag us into gaza , we couldn ' t do it in the hous , and that ' s the first thing i promis myself - that the minut i step into my countri , i ' ll scream as loud as i can , becaus nobodi will take my voic anymor . '' isra offici believ about 30 of the 133 hostag remain in gaza are dead . hope of anoth ceasefir deal to secur their releas have dim . stori of the condit - and sexual assault - in captiv have gradual emerg from some of those alreadi releas . moran say she lost 12 % of her bodyweight , and her hair , dure 54 day in gaza , and that her bodi wa cover with scar . it is hard for her to imagin what it ' s like for the hostag still held there , five month on . `` if thi isn ' t solv , then no - one is free , '' she said . `` i can ' t go back to a daili routin ; i can ' t go back to anyth . ''