israel ' s militari ha pull out of al - shifa hospit in gaza citi after a two - week raid that ha left most of the major medic complex in ruin . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri said dozen of bodi had been found and local said nearbi area were raze . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said it had kill 200 `` terrorist `` , detain over 500 more and found weapon and intellig `` throughout the hospit `` . the idf said it raid al - shifa becaus hama had regroup there . the two - week oper saw intens fight and isra air strike in nearbi build and the surround area . ward were attack becaus hama and palestinian islam jihad oper were use them as a base , the idf said , accus them of fight insid medic depart , set off explos and burn hospit build . imag publish follow the isra withdraw show palestinian walk near the char main build with chunk of wall miss and carri bodi wrap in blanket . graphic photo show corps partial expos on the churn ground . the health ministri said dozen of bodi , some decompos , had been found in and around the medic complex , which wa now `` complet out of servic `` . a doctor told afp news agenc more than 20 bodi had been recov , some crush by withdraw vehicl . a spokesperson for gaza ' s hama - run civil emerg servic said isra forc had use bulldoz to dig up the ground of the complex and exhum buri bodi . the hama govern media offic said isra forc had kill 400 palestinian in al - shifa and the surround area , includ a femal doctor and her son , who wa also a doctor . in an updat , idf spokesperson rear adm daniel hagari said the idf had taken `` special effort not to harm ani patient , ani medic staff , or ani civilian in the area . `` patient who remain in the compound were provid with medic suppli and water . '' he ad that 200 peopl he describ as `` terrorist `` had been kill . over 900 peopl were detain , of whom more than 500 were , he said , subsequ found to be affili with hama and palestinian islam jihad - which israel , the uk and other countri proscrib as terrorist organis . interrog of the suspect had yield `` signific intellig `` , he ad . earlier , the idf said `` forc found larg quantiti of weapon , intellig document throughout the hospit , encount terrorist in close - quarter battl and engag in combat while avoid harm to the medic staff and patient `` . the world health organ ( who ) said on sunday night that 21 patient had die , with patient move a number of time and held without medic care . dr amira al - safadi at al - shifa told the bbc ' s gaza lifelin radio that about 16 peopl who were in the intens care unit die after be move , becaus she and other doctor no longer had the equip to treat them . three day later , troop told medic staff to buri them outsid , she said . the idf ha been ask for comment . it say troop set up temporari infrastructur for medic treatment at al - shifa , with video show troop set up a small number of bed . patient barra al - shawish told reuter news agenc that the isra troop had allow in a `` veri small amount of food `` . `` no treatment , no medicin , noth , and bomb for 24 hour that didn ' t stop and immens destruct in the hospit , '' he said . some of the patient were be move to al - ahli hospit , about 3km ( 1 . 8 mile ) to the south - east , a medic at al - shifa told reuter . gaza ' s hospit have been a main focu of the current war , with thousand of palestinian seek shelter from isra bombard in their ground and isra forc storm the facil becaus they say hama fighter are present there . israel ha long accus hama of use civilian health infrastructur as a cover to launch it oper , which the group deni . two week ago , it took hundr of isra forc just a few hour to approach and enter the gaza strip ' s largest hospit . that wa in mark contrast to their first controversi raid there in novemb , when it took sever week for larg number of tank and vehicl , back by heavi air strike , to close in on the site . for support of the isra militari , thi ha been evid of the gain it ha made dure the war and it tactic success , launch a surpris attack on the enemi to strike it hard . an idf spokesman previous refer to the oper as `` one of the most success of the war so far `` becaus of the intellig glean , as well as number kill and detain . howev , some comment suggest the second al - shifa raid highlight flaw in israel ' s militari strategi for the war . they argu that it show the eas with which hama and palestinian islam jihad fighter were abl to regroup after israel pull it forc out of northern gaza and the urgent need to come up with a convinc post - war plan to govern the territori . on monday , the gaza health ministri appeal for intern help to restart medic care at nasser hospit in the southern gaza citi of khan youni . the biggest hospit in southern gaza ha been out of action sinc the isra militari storm it in februari . the war began when hama fighter storm into southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag , accord to isra talli . about 130 of the hostag remain in captiv , at least 34 of whom are presum dead . more than 32 , 800 palestinian have been kill and 75 , 000 injur in gaza sinc israel launch it militari campaign , accord to the hama - run health ministri . it say 70 % of those kill were women and children .