the white hous ha told congress it plan to send more than $ 1bn ( £ 800m ) in new weapon to israel . thi come despit the us be oppos to a full - scale invas by the isra militari on the southern gaza citi of rafah . it said last week it had paus a shipment of bomb to israel over concern civilian would be kill if use in dens popul area . the packag can be block by congress if a major in both chamber object . the packag , confirm by us media , would includ $ 700m in tank ammunit , $ 500m in tactic vehicl and $ 60m in mortar round , accord to the associ press news agenc . the white hous notif is part of a process mandat by feder law when a us arm sale to a foreign nation exce a set amount . last month , congress approv a packag of militari aid provid $ 95bn to israel , ukrain and taiwan . on tuesday , isra tank advanc deeper into residenti area in the south - east of rafah and are thought to be about a mile from the centr . meanwhil , medic servic are dwindl . aid agenc doctor without border told the bbc they had stop oper at one of the area ' s field hospit becaus it wa too danger to stay . the white hous notif is like to spark object from some member , although congress ha never success block an announc arm sale drawn from alreadi approv fund . democrat senat chri van hollen wa critic of the decis and told the washington post the us should not proceed with ani addit arm transfer until the netanyahu govern had met presid biden ' s concern about rafah and the provis of humanitarian assist . a us state depart report last week found that some american - made weapon provid to israel may have been use in breach of intern law . while the report wa a clear rebuk of some isra oper in gaza , it stop short of definit say that the israel defens forc ( idf ) campaign had breach intern law . it ad that assur it had receiv from israel about adher to the legal use of us weapon were `` credibl and reliabl `` . the isra arm - sale notif to congress is the first sinc mr biden ' s administr paus arm transfer to israel last week . he said he had delay the shipment of 2 , 000lb ( 900kg ) bomb to israel becaus of how they might be use in such a ground oper . ask by cnn about the delay , mr biden said : `` civilian have been kill in gaza as a consequ of those bomb . '' weapon transfer to israel have becom a polit liabil for mr biden ahead of thi novemb ' s 2024 white hous elect . news of the latest arm packag emerg soon after vote end in a presidenti primari elect in maryland , where activist had urg voter to regist a protest ballot against what they see as mr biden ' s favourit toward israel over the gaza war . republican lawmak in congress have introduc legisl intend to prevent ani further paus in weapon shipment to the us alli . the hous of repres thi week will vote on a measur that requir the state depart and defenc depart to ensur the `` prompt deliveri `` of militari equip . the white hous ha vow to veto the bill , if it manag to pass the senat , which is unlik . israel launch a militari campaign to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 35 , 170 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , includ 82 in the past 24 hour , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . north america correspond anthoni zurcher make sens of the race for the white hous in hi weekli us elect unspun newslett . reader in the uk can sign up here . those outsid the uk can sign up here .