spiral tension and cross - border strike which have kill more than 70 civilian in lebanon have turn part of the south into ghost town . resid have fled , leav their home at risk of destruct . the bbc went on patrol with the un ' s peacekeep forc there to see what ha happen . the huge crater contain a mangl mattress buri under a pile of dust and stone is all that ' s left of the build that stood on thi spot just day ago . `` we call it ' the pool ' , '' said a lebanes armi offic at yarin - a border town on the front line of the one of the region ' s most danger conflict zone . yarin is just 1km ( 0 . 6 mile ) from the un - design blue line - the highli volatil , unoffici boundari between israel and lebanon . in everi town near the line , there are similar sight : build level or vanish into crater ; next to them , build which have been damag , then row of hous intact - follow by more crater . in alma el shaab , about 4km west of yarin , stand the remain of what appear to have been a gate villa with park car - destroy , apart from a fenc now surround a pile of rubbl . the window of hous nearbi were all smash from the forc of the explos . `` we are pay the price of all of thi , '' lament the 75 - year - old owner of the villa , nadim sayyah . mr sayyah said he use to keep the light on all the time in the hope that might spare the famili home from be hit . `` everyth is lost , the hous , the belong , and the car . but i will return as soon as i can , even if i were to live in a tent there . '' a soldier there point out that `` one missil did all of thi `` . israel ha been carri out strike on southern lebanon almost daili sinc hezbollah - the power lebanes shia islamist group - fire rocket at israel on 8 octob in support of hama in gaza , trigger an escal seri of attack and counter - attack . becaus of the danger - three report ( one from reuter and two from al mayadeen ) have been kill in strike in south lebanon which their news organis and lebanon have blame on israel - the bbc team visit the border area with the un peacekeep forc , unifil . israel ha said it doe not target journalist . unifil ha been in south lebanon sinc israel ' s pullback and eventu withdraw follow it invas of 1978 . in a not - too - distant past , unifil proudli emphasis that it had overseen the longest period of calm between lebanon and israel - stretch to 16 year sinc the last war between hezbollah and israel in 2006 . as the bbc team wa film , what seem to be isra drone could be heard in the sky . moment later , plume of thick black smoke appear in the distanc , an appar isra strike . it wa not possibl to know what had been hit . the isra armi say it target hezbollah fighter and infrastructur and retali to attack on isra armi base in northern israel . but some lebanes offici , includ the caretak prime minster and speaker of parliament , have accus it of implement scorch earth tactic to make the whole area uninhabit . right now , there is no sign of life in mani southern villag . peopl have fled , leav town desert . about 90 , 000 lebanes have becom displac , accord to the intern organ for migrat ( iom ) . on the isra side , about 80 , 000 peopl have been evacu . israel ' s defenc minist ha said isra from northern commun can not expect to return home until hezbollah ha been driven back from the border . the lebanes town of aita el shaab - just 700m ( 2 , 300ft ) from israel - ha suffer the heaviest damag so far . on the day of our visit , israel said it launch 40 strike on the town . `` we know that our hous ha been badli damag , but it is still stand - as far as we know , '' said hussein jawad , who come from aita el shaab . hussein , a construct worker , left hi hous with hi seven children and hi wife in octob . they are now stay in an apart on the outskirt of beirut . `` we didn ' t expect it all to last that long . we thought it would just be a coupl of day , '' hi wife maryam said . `` we know it will still take a while . '' we show hussein a video of hi town that we film just month ago . `` thi hous is now destroy , that one doesn ' t exist ani more , thi row of shop here is now total flatten , '' he point out . he ha ventur back to hi town onc - week ago when he attend a funer . he get updat about hi hous everi onc in a while , from the civil defenc staff there or from the mayor who ha not left the town . accord to the us - base monitor group arm conflict locat & event data project ( acl ) , there have been more than 5 , 400 cross - border attack between israel and hezbollah sinc octob . it say 80 % of those were carri out by israel . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said last month that it had hit over 4 , 300 `` hezbollah target `` . it ha also said that as of 2 april , approxim 3 , 100 rocket had been fire at israel from lebanes territori . israel say nine civilian have been kill by rocket - fire from lebanon . hussein doe not expect to be abl to move back home ani time soon . `` it could be that what we are wit is just the begin of it , '' he say . back on the road with the italian conting on unifil , it command , colonel alberto salvador , insist that the peacekeep forc ' role is still veri import , despit the continu violenc . `` we see mani peopl are tire of the situat on thi side of the border and on the other side as well . i think it ' s time for peac , '' he say . `` the next challeng for the unifil is to help and support the local popul in return to their home . '' but as fight between israel and hezbollah intensifi , the prospect of that happen remain dim .