a un report into the palestinian refuge agenc unrwa ha conclud it must do more to improv it neutral , staff vet and transpar . but the independ review also said that israel had fail to back up a claim that mani of the agenc ' s staff belong to terror group . some of unrwa ' s staff were accus by israel of involv in the 7 octob attack and of be hama member . thi led sever countri to halt fund to the humanitarian agenc . the new report say israel ha not yet provid `` support evid `` for it alleg . howev it add that the agenc ' s monitor process need to improv , and that neutral - relat issu persist despit the fact that the organis ha a `` robust framework `` . the isra author have reject the find , claim the report ignor the sever of the problem . they say the problem with the agenc is not `` that of a few bad appl : it is a rotten and poison tree whose root are hama `` . israel initi alleg that 12 unrwa staff took part in the hama attack on southern israel , which saw 1 , 200 peopl kill and about 250 taken hostag . unrwa fire the 10 of those employe who were still aliv and a separ investig by the un ' s offic of intern oversight into those alleg is ongo . monday ' s report look at the other isra claim that larg number of unrwa staff are member of terror group or have famili member who are . israel ha said more than 2 , 135 employe of the agenc - of a total of 13 , 000 in gaza - are member of hama or palestinian islam jihad , proscrib as terrorist organis by israel , the uk , us and other . it ha also suggest a fifth of unrwa school administr are hama member . unrwa insist it carri out detail refer check on all staff , and share staff list with all host state includ israel . thi new report say israel is yet to provid support evid for it claim . but it is not a glow endors of the agenc . led by former french foreign minist catherin colonna , and support by three european research institut , it find that unrwa could do better uphold the obligatori humanitarian principl of neutral and imparti . it point to staff vet system that could be improv - but add that for thi to happen , there need to be better cooper with and from isra and palestinian author . israel alreadi receiv list of unrwa staff for it own vet purpos on a regular basi . the report also highlight how challeng - even danger - unrwa ' s work environ is . violenc is common , opinion are polaris , and although unrwa ' s system are describ as more rigor than mani other agenc , the report suggest they are often hamper by low staf and secur concern . the un chief and head of unrwa have accept the report ' s find in full , and pledg to implement all it recommend . although sever donor includ japan , sweden , finland , canada and the eu have resum fund to unrwa , the us and uk have not . the un will be hope thi report will encourag them to restor their financi support . but some donor may want to wait for the other un investig that specif look at alleg that 12 unrwa staff actual took part in the 7 octob attack , befor restor cash to an organis today ' s report describ , despit it need for improv , as `` irreplac and indispens to palestinian ' human and econom develop `` .