seven hostag be held in the gaza strip have die , hama said on friday . the group blame the death on isra bombard and said a `` number `` of it fighter were also kill . it said the number of hostag kill might now exceed 70 . the bbc ha not been abl to independ verifi thi . it wa not immedi clear if these death were among the 31 hostag israel believ have alreadi die . there ha been no comment yet from israel , and hama did not provid substanti evid . hama took 253 hostag when gunmen launch an attack on southern israel on 7 octob , and kill about 1 , 200 peopl . israel respond by launch a larg - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hama . more than 30 , 000 palestinian have been kill in gaza as a result , the hama - run health ministri say , and the un is warn of a loom famin in the north of the countri . in novemb , hama releas 105 hostag as part of a temporari ceasefir deal with israel , in exchang for israel free 240 palestinian prison . israel say more than 100 hostag are still be held insid gaza . it is not known when the report death of the hostag took place . in a statement releas on the telegram account of the qassam brigad - hama ' arm wing - spokesman abu obeida appear to suggest that the group wa still interest in a deal with israel to releas the hostag in return for prison held by israel . `` we affirm that the price we will take in exchang for five or 10 live prison is the same price we would have taken in exchang for all the prison if the enemi ' s bomb oper had not kill them , '' the spokesman said . the releas of hostag is one of the central point in ceasefir talk in qatar which have been go on for month . the discuss are tri to secur a short - term ceasefir , dure which hostag would gradual be releas . femal civilian and soldier would be freed first . in return , palestinian prison , some of them convict of seriou terrorist offenc , would be releas from isra jail . isra soldier might move away from some of gaza ' s most popul area , and some of the 1 . 8 million palestinian displac by the fight sinc octob might be abl to return to home in the north . howev , there are fear that the announc of the hostag ' death , coupl with the death of at least 112 peopl dure a gaza aid deliveri on thursday , could hamper these talk . hama accus israel of fire at civilian , but israel said most die in a crush after it fire warn shot . after thursday ' s death , hama warn that talk in qatar to tri and secur a new ceasefir alongsid the releas of isra hostag it is hold could now be jeopardis . earlier thi week , us presid joe biden had said he hope a temporari ceasefir could be agre by earli next week but thi is look increasingli unlik . on friday , mr biden announc that `` in the come day `` the us would take part in air drop of food into gaza . `` innoc peopl got caught in a terribl war , unabl to feed their famili . and you saw the respons when they tri to get aid , '' he said . `` we need to do more and the unit state will do more . '' the us announc come one day after jordanian air forc pilot drop 33 tonn of medic suppli and food into gaza . accord to the washington post , jordanian plane have also drop aid provid by the us and the uk , while plane from franc , egypt and the unit arab emir have particip in similar oper . air drop have been criticis by aid group as costli and insuffici . `` oxfam doe not support us air drop to gaza , which would mostli serv to reliev the guilti conscienc of senior us offici whose polici are contribut to the ongo atroc and risk of famin in gaza , '' the chariti group said . `` while palestinian in gaza have been push to the absolut brink , drop a paltri , symbol amount of aid into gaza with no plan for it safe distribut would not help and be deepli degrad to palestinian , '' oxfam said . it ad that the us should instead work to `` cut the flow of weapon to israel `` . on friday , nicaragua file a case at the intern court of justic , call on it to stop germani from give militari aid to israel . togeth with the us , berlin is one of the largest arm export to israel .