it ha been nearli six month sinc hama fighter broke through from gaza into israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take hundr hostag . in respons , israel vow to `` crush and destroy hama `` so that it no longer pose ani threat , and to bring all the hostag home . in the brutal war that ha follow , at least 33 , 000 palestinian have been kill , accord to the hama - run health ministri , and larg part of gaza have been destroy . israel say it ha kill thousand of hama fighter and destroy much of the vast network of tunnel beneath gaza , which hama ha use to carri out attack . bbc verifi ha comb through public statement and social media post by the israel defens forc ( idf ) and assess the evid behind israel ' s state aim . befor 7 octob , hama wa thought to have about 30 , 000 fighter in gaza , accord to report quot idf command . mani of hama ' s senior polit figur such as ismail haniyeh , wide consid to be the group ' s overal leader , live abroad . but mani of it militari leadership structur are thought to be insid gaza . in a recent statement , the idf said it had kill about 13 , 000 hama fighter sinc the start of the war , although it did not say how it calcul that figur . israel also publish the name of individu hama leader it say have been kill . a total of 113 peopl have been name in thi way sinc octob , the overwhelm major of whom were report kill in the first three month of the war . by comparison , the isra armi did not report ani senior hama leader kill in gaza thi year until march . on 26 march , the idf said it had kill marwan issa , deputi command of hama ' s militari wing . consid one of israel ' s most - want men , he would be the group ' s most senior leader to be kill sinc the war began . the us ha said it believ he wa kill , but hama ha not confirm it . the idf publish name of individu who it say are senior hama leader who have been kill , but it is not possibl to verifi whether they are member of the group . one of those name in thi categori wa mustafa thuraya , who wa work as a freelanc journalist in southern gaza when hi vehicl wa hit in januari . we also found duplic name in the list , which we have discount from the total . outsid gaza , hama polit leader saleh al - arouri die in an explos in beirut ' s southern suburb of dahiyeh in januari . israel is wide consid respons for that attack . howev , expert we spoke to said mani of the group ' s promin leader in gaza , includ yahya sinwar , are still believ to be aliv . `` the idf hasn ' t been abl to get to the top brass of the hama leadership , '' say mairav zonszein , a senior analyst on isra - palestinian affair at the intern crisi group . `` both on a symbol level of get to the main leader , and also on the level of replac hama as the holder of the territori , that ' s someth that it hasn ' t been abl to achiev , '' ms zonszein say . accord to isra offici figur , 253 peopl were taken hostag on 7 octob . of these : the youngest confirm live hostag is 18 and the oldest age 85 . of the remain 129 hostag , israel say at least 34 are dead . hama say the number of dead hostag is higher - the result of idf air strike . but it is not possibl to verifi these alleg . the two youngest hostag taken in the hama attack were ariel and kfir , who were 4 year and 9 month old respect at the time of their abduct . their death have been report , but not confirm . as part of it pledg to elimin hama , israel promis to destroy the group ' s extens tunnel network beneath gaza , which it use to move good and peopl . `` think of the gaza strip as one layer for civilian and then anoth layer for hama . we are tri to get to that second layer that hama ha built , '' idf spokesperson jonathan conricu said in octob . hama ha previous said that it tunnel network stretch for 500km ( 311 mile ) , although there is no way to independ verifi thi . we ask the idf how mani tunnel , and what proport of the total tunnel network , they had destroy . in their repli , they said their forc had `` destroy a great deal of the terrorist infrastructur in gaza `` . the idf ha occasion shown evid of hama tunnel they ' ve uncov . for exampl , in novemb , the idf releas video footag of part of a tunnel network underneath the al - shifa hospit in gaza citi which it said wa be use as a command centr . to tri to determin the extent of the overal network uncov by the isra forc , bbc verifi ha review all the idf messag on the social media platform telegram referenc tunnel in gaza , between 7 octob 2023 and 26 march 2024 . of these , 198 mention the discoveri of tunnel , where the armi said it had locat tunnel or tunnel shaft . anoth 141 messag claim that a tunnel ha been destroy or dismantl . most of those did not give precis detail or specif locat , so it is not possibl to corrobor the extent of the network the idf ha uncov or destroy . the labyrinth beneath gaza is made up of sever compon , includ tunnel rout and room of variou size , as well as the point at which the tunnel meet the surfac - these are known as tunnel shaft . of the messag we analys , 36 referenc strike a total of more than 400 tunnel shaft . howev , equat a shaft with an entir tunnel would be mislead , say dr daphnã © richemond - barak , an expert on underground warfar who teach at reichman univers in israel . the simpl destruct of tunnel shaft leav the network intact , she say . `` given the scale and depth of hama ' s tunnel network , it is imposs to fulli elimin all of it underground militari structur , '' she add . israel ' s war aim have come at an immens cost to palestinian in gaza . more than 33 , 000 peopl have been kill , accord to the hama - run health ministri . the ministri ' s latest demograph breakdown from 5 april indic more than 70 % of those kill were women and children . mani other have been displac and left homeless as isra forc attempt to destroy hama infrastructur . over 1 . 7 million peopl have been intern displac , accord to the unit nation . residenti area have been left ruin , bustl street reduc to rubbl , univers destroy and farmland churn up . more than 56 % of gaza ' s build have been damag or destroy sinc 7 octob , accord to satellit data analysi . six month sinc the war began , it is still unclear whether israel ha met it aim in the war . addit report by rob england , maryam ahm , jami ryan and emma pengelli . clarif 9 april : we origin quot dr daphnã © richemond - barak as say : `` i don ' t think we ' ve seen a lot of full destruct of tunnel in thi war . '' howev , she wa specif refer to the destruct of tunnel use water . we ' ve subsequ amend thi articl to includ a more relev quot from her about the difficulti of fulli destroy the hama tunnel network . what do you want bbc verifi to investig ?