presid joe biden ha promis israel `` ironclad `` us support amid fear that tehran could launch repris for an attack that kill senior iranian . he warn that iran is threaten to launch a `` signific attack `` after it blame israel for a strike on it consul in syria 10 day ago . `` we ' re go to do all we can to protect israel ' s secur , '' he ad . earlier on wednesday , iran ' s leader said the attack in damascu wa equival to an attack on iran itself . `` when they attack our consul area , it wa like they attack our territori , '' ayatollah ali khamenei said in a televis speech . `` the evil regim must be punish , and it will be punish . '' it is unclear what form ani repris attack would take . for iran to strike israel directli would risk an even greater escal in the conflict , and analyst have said iran doe not have the militari capabl for a signific confront . a possibl altern is an attack via an iranian proxi like hezbollah , which ha trade fire with israel across the border from lebanon almost daili sinc 8 octob . those exchang have intensifi in recent week . `` hezbollah is veri capabl , hundr of thousand of rocket and missil there , on the border that can reach all the way into southern israel , '' joe buccino , former commun director at the us militari ' s central command , told the bbc . `` hezbollah is much more capabl than hama . so they ' d have the capabl to do signific damag into israel . '' on sunday an iranian offici warn israel ' s embassi were `` no longer safe `` , suggest a consul build could be a possibl target . expert have also suggest iran could target israel with a cyber - attack . thirteen peopl were kill in the 1 april attack on the iranian consul build , includ senior iranian militari leader . among them wa brig - gen mohammad reza zahedi , a senior command of iran ' s elit qud forc in syria and lebanon . israel ha not claim respons for the attack , but is wide consid to have been behind it . us and isra forc in the region have been put on high alert in the day sinc . last week the israel defens forc ( idf ) cancel leav for soldier serv with combat unit and call up reservist to bolster air defenc unit . isra minist of foreign affair israel katz respond on social media to ayatollah khamenei ' s comment by say if tehran attack from it territori , israel would react and `` attack in iran `` . meanwhil the head of us forc in the region , gen michael kurilla , is to discuss the threat of a possibl iranian attack in talk with isra defenc minist yoav gallant and armi chief of staff lt gen herzi halevi in israel on thursday , accord to isra media report . mr biden ' s remark came as he wa speak to journalist at the white hous on wednesday alongsid japanes prime minist fumio kishida . `` as i told prime minist [ benjamin ] netanyahu , our commit to israel ' s secur against these threat from iran and it proxi is ironclad - let me say it again , ironclad , '' mr biden said . hi comment come one day after an interview , record a week ago , wa air in which mr biden urg mr netanyahu to `` just call for a ceasefir `` in gaza and in which he said he disagre with the prime minist ' s war strategi . `` i think what he ' s do is a mistak . i don ' t agre with hi approach , '' he said in the interview with us network univis . it also come day after a tens phone call between mr biden and mr netanyahu in the wake of the isra kill of seven humanitarian aid worker in gaza . mr biden ha sharpen hi rhetor over israel ' s conduct in the nearli six - month - old war spark by hama ' s 7 octob attack , and voic hi grow frustrat with mr netanyahu . iran back hama and iranian offici have prais the attack in which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 taken to gaza as hostag . us offici have been attempt to send a messag to the iranian that , despit differ of opinion between mr biden and mr netanyahu , ani attack on israel will be met with an aggress us respons . in an effort to eas tension , the foreign minist of saudi arabia , the uae , qatar and iraq spoke to their iranian counterpart thi week , accord to axio . the minist were ask to convey a messag from mr biden ' s senior middl east advisor , brett mcgurk , about the need to de - escal . accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri , more than 33 , 000 peopl - mostli women and children - have been kill in the isra offens , which wa trigger by hama ' s attack . addit report by raffi berg