iran ' s brazen attack directli target israel on saturday mean that the one thing presid biden most fear and desper sought to avert in the wake of the 7 octob hama attack ha happen - an escal of the conflict to the wider region . for the us presid , the tightrop he wa walk on the israel - gaza war ha got even thinner , as he seek to both de - escal the situat and deter iran , while face domest pressur from both left and right over the relationship with israel . ani ceasefir deal in gaza , meanwhil , hang in the balanc . just two week ago , it appear that the us - israel relationship - onc the closest of close alli - wa in seriou troubl . presid biden wa express not just frustrat but also outright anger at the lack of humanitarian aid get into gaza and the kill of seven aid worker in a strike by the israel defens forc . the level of disagr wa such that the administr made clear it could reconsid it stanc toward israel , and possibl even withhold arm export . but iran ' s action at the weekend seem to have chang all that . the barrag of more than 300 missil and drone fire at israel prompt a highli success , hand - in - glove militari action by the us and israel to defend the countri . the co - ordin action ha seemingli rekindl some of the old warmth . and the white hous will now be hope it can capitalis on that to influenc israel ' s respons . offici are not so naiv as to think there will be no respons at all , but they want it calibr in such a way that it can be view as an act of restraint . but the weekend ' s joint militari success also mask a fundament and worri chang in the region situat , accord to former us envoy denni ross , a 40 - year veteran of us diplomaci in the middl east . iran ' s direct retali against isra territori for the target of it elit qud forc offic in a strike on the iranian consul in syria ha `` rewritten the rule `` of the israel - iran relationship , he say , further destabilis an alreadi precari situat . iran ha spent year build up proxi forc sworn to israel ' s destruct , while fund and arm palestinian group includ hama , as well as the shia milit group hezbollah in lebanon . but saturday mark the first time sinc the islam revolut in 1979 that iran ha attempt to launch a direct attack on israel . and so , no matter how you spin the success of the militari technolog that effect neutralis iran ' s action , a rubicon ha been cross . that , say mr ross , mean there wa a `` failur of deterr `` toward iran . mr biden now face an uncomfort paradox , he say . the presid ha to simultan lower the temperatur with iran , but at the same time , make tehran understand there is a cost to it action . in the wake of saturday ' s attack , the white hous made clear it would not join ani isra militari retali against iran , while assert it commit to israel ' s secur remain `` ironclad `` . iran ' s direct involv in the current war will also make reach a ceasefir deal in gaza and the releas of hostag kidnap by hama significantli harder . american diplomat have been work around the clock to get israel to agre to a six - week paus in fight to allow for the releas of both hostag from gaza and palestinian prison in isra jail . the agreement would also facilit the movement of desper need aid into gaza , where starvat is loom . befor the weekend , they had israel ' s buy - in and the pressur wa on hama . all that is now in jeopardi as the world wait to see how israel will respond . the domest complic for the presid are meanwhil ever present . there ' s pressur from part of the left to distanc himself from israel ; and accus from the right of weak in not stand up to iran forc enough . `` i understand that in an elect year . one want to keep thing contain . it ' s perfectli understand , '' say mr ross , who play a key role in the middl east peac process in both the georg hw bush and clinton administr . `` but by the same token , we have an iran that took a step that it hadn ' t taken befor . and by take that step it is show a readi to cross certain threshold and the more they cross certain threshold , they get more use to do that . and the region becom far more danger as a result . '' all thi of cours is ripe with the potenti for misunderstand and miscalcul . one misstep could set off a chain reaction that could quickli spiral out of control . the region is a notori tinderbox and could catch light even further at ani time . the world is hold it breath .