isra defenc minist yoav gallant ha voic open frustrat at the govern ’ s failur to address the question of a post - war plan for gaza . in a rare public sign of divis over the direct of the militari campaign within israel ’ s war cabinet , mr gallant urg prime minist benjamin netanyahu to declar publicli that israel ha no plan to take over civilian and militari rule in gaza . “ sinc octob , i have been rais thi issu consist in the cabinet , ” he said , “ and have receiv no respons . ” prime minist benjamin netanyahu respond harshli , say he wa `` not readi to exchang hamastan for fatahstan , '' in refer to rival palestinian group hama and fatah . indecis , he warn , would leav onli two bad option in gaza : hama rule or isra militari rule . either “ would erod our militari achiev , lessen the pressur on hama and sabotag chanc of achiev a framework for the releas of hostag , ” mr gallant said . anoth member of the war cabinet , benni gantz - who ha disagre with netanyahu in the past - agre with the defenc minist : `` gallant speak the truth . it is the leadership ' s respons to do the right thing for the countri at all cost . '' mr gallant said that the defenc establish , over which he presid , had present a war plan to the cabinet as earli as the night when israel ’ s ground invas of gaza began last octob . he said the plan includ propos “ to establish a local , non - hostil palestinian govern altern . ” the day after hama , he said , would “ onli be achiev by palestinian entiti take control of gaza , accompani by intern actor . ” he said these propos were never debat , nor were ani altern present . mr gallant said the failur to set out a plan wa lead israel toward a “ danger cours ” involv isra militari and civilian rule over gaza . he describ that prospect as “ a neg and danger option for the state of israel strateg , militarili , and from a secur standpoint . ” “ i must reiter : i will not agre to the establish of isra militari rule in gaza . israel must not establish civilian rule in gaza . ” “ i call on prime minist benjamin netanyahu to make a decis and declar that israel will not establish civilian control over the gaza strip , that israel will not establish militari govern in the gaza strip , and that a govern altern to hama in the gaza strip will be rais immedi . ” isra press report have recent includ suggest that militari leader have grave misgiv about the lack of a viabl plan for gaza after the war end . mr gallant ’ s comment thi even bring those misgiv out into the open in a polit explos way . on a visit to ukrain on wednesday , us secretari of state antoni blinken said that israel need to produc a clear plan for gaza ' s futur . '' we can ' t have anarchi and a vacuum that ' s like to be fill by chao , '' mr blinken said . mr netanyahu ha previous insist that discuss on the futur govern of gaza are just “ empti talk ” as long as hama remain in the territori .