israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu say he ha set a date for a militari offens into rafah , despit grow warn that it could lead to high civilian casualti . more than a million palestinian are shelter in the southern citi after be forc to flee their home . mr netanyahu ' s comment follow call by far - right govern alli to step up militari action against hama . the prime minist ' s popular ha plummet after six month of war . with negoti with hama still under way in egypt , mr netanyahu is be push to agre a hostag - prison swap and ceasefir deal by mani isra - as well as key intern alli , includ the us . but as discont grow at home and abroad over how hi govern ha conduct the war , he is also face call to ramp up oper against hama by far - right leader he ha reli on for polit support . mr netanyahu ' s rule is back by a coalit that includ far - right , ultranationalist parti , some of whom are against the idea of make concess to hama . they say the war must continu and believ the isra militari should go ahead with plan to launch an incurs into the southern citi of rafah , where about 1 . 5 million palestinian are shelter in tent and overcrowd camp . those call intensifi after the israel defens forc ( idf ) announc it wa pull it troop out of khan youni , the largest citi in southern gaza , effect end major ground oper in the area . itamar ben gvir , the far - right nation secur minist , warn mr netanyahu that if he `` decid to end the war without a broad attack on rafah to defeat hama , he won ' t have a mandat to continu serv as prime minist `` . far - right financ minist bezalel smotrich told the prime minist `` we have to increas the pressur on hama in gaza , which is the onli way to bring back the [ isra ] hostag and destroy hama `` . speak on monday after those intervent , mr netanyahu said : `` today i receiv a detail report on the talk in cairo - we are constantli work to achiev our goal , first and foremost the releas of all our hostag and achiev a complet victori over hama . `` thi victori requir entri into rafah and the elimin of the terrorist battalion there . it will happen - there is a date . '' the remark may be seen as an attempt to appeal to alli that sustain hi coalit , as ani offens is unlik to be immin . mr netanyahu did not indic which date he had decid on . the us is oppos to an assault on rafah , and the isra govern ha also been urg to halt the plan offens in a joint statement sign by egyptian presid abdul fattah al - sisi , french presid emmanuel macron and jordan ' s king abdullah ii . write in franc ' s le mond newspap , they warn the plan would have `` danger consequ `` and `` threaten region escal `` , ad : `` the war in gaza and the catastroph humanitarian suffer it is caus must end now . they also said a recent un secur council resolut call for an immedi ceasefir and the releas of all hama - held hostag must be `` fulli implement without further delay `` . domest , there have been larg protest demand an agreement to guarante the releas of the hostag . famili say mr netanyahu ha not made their releas a prioriti , and that the govern ' s strategi of put militari pressur on hama to negoti ha fail . the rel say time is run out to save the captiv who remain aliv . with talk involv intermediari in cairo ongo , isra defenc minist yoav gallant suggest earlier thi week that now wa the right time for a deal over hostag . on monday , a senior hama offici told the reuter news agenc that isra propos had not met it demand , but the group said they would nevertheless be examin . `` there is no chang in the posit of the occup [ israel ] and therefor , there is noth new in the cairo talk , '' the hama offici , who ask not to be identifi , said . `` there is no progress yet . '' william burn , the director of the cia , is attend the cairo talk . hi presenc underlin the grow pressur from the us - israel ' s main alli - for an agreement . in a separ develop , israel report that 419 aid truck had enter gaza on monday , includ 330 truck carri food - more than doubl the averag 140 food truck a day in march . it follow us pressur on israel to allevi humanitarian suffer in gaza . on tuesday , us defens secretari lloyd austin told a senat hear that widespread famin in gaza would `` acceler violenc , and it will have the effect of ensur that there ' s a long - term conflict `` . `` it doesn ' t have to happen , '' he said , ad : `` we should continu to do everyth we can , and we are do thi , to encourag the isra to provid humanitarian assist . '' howev , an isra promis to open the erez cross to northern gaza , where hunger is most acut , ha not yet been carri out and offici have not indic when that could happen . the head of the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa , again warn of possibl famin , say far too littl aid wa reach gaza . philipp lazzarini also warn palestinian return to the devast citi of khan youni about the threat of unexplod munit there follow the isra pullout . he told the bbc there might be thousand of such devic in the rubbl . some resid who have alreadi gone back said they were unabl to locat their home in the ruin . hama attack southern isra border commun on 7 octob , kill 1 , 200 peopl and take more than 250 hostag . israel say that of 130 hostag still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 000 gazan , the major of them civilian , have been kill dure israel ' s offens in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say . gaza is said to be on the brink of famin , with oxfam report that 300 , 000 peopl trap in the north have live sinc januari on an averag of 245 calori a day . israel ha deni imped the entri of aid or it distribut insid gaza , and ha accus un agenc on the ground of fail to get the aid that is allow in to the peopl who need it .