the unit nation ha said that an indian staff member ' s death thi week in gaza wa caus by an isra tank attack on hi vehicl . col waibhav kale , a former indian armi offic , die on monday after a un vehicl wa struck near the citi of rafah . anoth staffer wa injur . col kale ' s death is the first of an intern un worker in gaza sinc the start of the conflict . the israel defens forc ( idf ) ha said the incid is under review . on wednesday , un deputi spokesperson farhan haq said the organis had `` no doubt `` that shot from an isra tank hit the back of the car , which wa clearli mark as a un vehicl . mr haq said the agenc want to know the circumst under which the attack took place and wa in discuss with isra author . he ad that the un depart of safeti and secur ( undss ) , which employ the two staffer , had set up a fact - find panel to look into the incid . the un had earlier said the worker were travel to the european hospit near rafah when their vehicl wa struck . footag post on social media and verifi by the bbc show a mark un vehicl with multipl bullet hole outsid the hospit . the isra militari said an initi inquiri indic the vehicl wa struck in an activ combat zone and it had not been made awar of it rout . but the un said the vehicl wa clearli mark and it plan movement had been announc in advanc to isra author . col kale , 46 , wa from the western indian state of maharashtra and had join the undss in gaza week befor the attack . thi wa hi first deploy in the region . `` he told me that he had join the un becaus it seem like the best way to make a differ , '' gill michaud , the under - secretari - gener for safeti and secur , said in a statement . `` he sign up to work in support of peopl who desper need help ; in the most danger place , at a time of unimagin crisi . thi speak volum about hi charact , '' he said . kale had spent 22 year in the indian armi befor he opt for an earli retir ; he later work in a privat firm , hi famili told bbc marathi . but unhappi with a desk job , he join the undss in april . `` waibhav kale , an indian , had noth to do with hama or israel or thi war . but he ha sacrif hi life for peac . now , peac must be restor in gaza , '' hi cousin chinmay kale told local media . india ' s mission to the un in new york said it `` deepest condol are with the famili `` of col kale . un secretari - gener antónio guterr said on monday that he wa `` deepli sadden `` to learn of the worker ' s death and sent hi condol to their famili , mr farhan haq said in a statement . in a separ statement , mr guterr said more than 190 un staff had been kill in gaza sinc the war began . apart from col kale , six intern aid worker and a palestinian colleagu from the intern food chariti world central kitchen were kill in an isra strike at the start of april . their death spark an intern outcri and the idf sack two senior offic over the incid which it describ as a `` grave accid `` . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza with the state aim of destroy hama - which control gaza - in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 35 , 090 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . addit report by malu cursino in london