gate 96 is littl more than a hole in gaza ' s border fenc . it rut track lead away toward gaza citi ; a bumpi lifelin , quickli lost in thick even dark . when the un accus israel of deliber keep aid flow at a trickl , israel point to gate 96 - one of sever new aid rout it ha approv , along with airdrop and a maritim corridor from cypru . along the border fenc , seven lorri load with food aid are line up and wait to cross , their engin slowli turn beneath the occasion boom of artilleri . thi new cross point take them directli into gaza ' s desper northern area , and avoid a long , difficult drive through the conflict zone . but with the un warn that northern gaza is week away from famin , intern demand to ramp up the amount of aid are get more insist . israel say it ha facilit more than 350 aid truck into northern gaza over the past month . aid agenc say the territori as a whole need 500 a day . `` the bottleneck of thi chain doe not lie with the idf [ israel defens forc ] , '' said colonel mosh tetro , head of the armi ' s coordin and liaison administr , which handl approv for aid convoy . he told the bbc that the armi ' s job wa to `` facilit the entranc of humanitarian aid into gaza `` and that the hold - up lay with the logist abil of aid agenc to distribut it on the other side . he point to the truck wait to cross , say the evid wa right in front of us . twenti truck had been approv to cross that night , he said , but onli seven show up . `` we took a lot of measur to enlarg the amount of humanitarian aid , '' he said . `` but the un and other intern organis have some bottleneck regard the amount of truck , amount of truck driver , manpow , work hour … '' matthew hollingworth , countri director of the world food programm ( wfp ) , wa on one of the truck idl by the border fenc that night . he told the bbc there wa a specif reason whi the wfp had not been abl to provid all 20 vehicl . `` on thi particular convoy , we were given a limit of 15 vet driver by the idf that were clear to use thi rout , but onli seven were avail to us `` , he said . some of the approv driver had gone to gaza citi the previou day , and were stuck there , he said . even drive an empti lorri back through gaza need isra armi approv . `` we need 50 , 60 , 70 , 80 truck driver clear to use these rout everi singl day , '' he said . `` we need more entri point to northern gaza and gaza citi , and we need earli approv so that we can run multipl convoy everi singl day . '' israel is keen to show the world it ' s allow more aid into gaza - but say it ' s not respons for the amount of aid actual go in , or the abil of agenc to distribut it on the ground . intern law say differ : that israel ha a duti , not just to open the gate , but to use all mean avail to it to get food and medicin to the peopl under it control . col tetro tell me there is no shortag of food in gaza , and that if hama want to the chang the situat there , they should end the war . ask about the warn of famin , and imag of acut malnourish children in gaza ' s hospit , he repeat the same phrase , again and again . `` there is no starvat in gaza , '' he said . `` there is no shortag of food . '' on sunday , gaza ' s main relief agenc , unrwa , said israel had ban it from deliv ani more food to northern gaza . israel say the agenc is link to hama , and that it would continu to work with organis that `` are not involv in terror `` . unrwa ' s director , philipp lazzarini , said the ban wa `` outrag `` and accus israel of intent obstruct aid . the agenc recent tri to restart convoy after a two month paus , which began when one of it lorri wa shell dure a deliveri in januari . at gate 96 , armi vehicl buzz around the convoy , befor the cross point open and the truck move off into the night . thi slim channel between israel and gaza cross onli by aid and armi ; bring food and war , life and death .