an intern un report seen by the bbc ha describ widespread abus of palestinian who were captur and interrog at makeshift isra detent centr dure the ongo war in gaza . the draft document compil by the unit nation relief and work agenc ( unrwa ) , the main un agenc support palestinian , includ detail testimoni from detaine who describ an extens rang of ill - treatment . they includ be strip and beaten , be forc into cage and attack by dog , forc into stress posit for extend period , and subject to `` blunt forc trauma `` includ the butt of gun and boot , result in some case in `` broken rib , separ shoulder and last injuri `` . it say both men and women report `` threat and incid of sexual violenc and harass `` includ inappropri touch of women and beat to men ' s genit . in a statement provid to the bbc , the isra defens forc ( idf ) said : `` the mistreat of detaine dure their time in detent or whilst under interrog violat idf valu and contraven idf and is therefor absolut prohibit . '' it reject specif alleg includ the denial of access to water , medic care and bed . the idf also said that claim regard sexual abus were `` anoth cynic attempt to creat fals equival with the systemat use of rape as a weapon of war by hama `` . in earlier statement to the new york time and guardian newspap , the isra militari said it wa awar of death in detent , includ those with pre - exist ill and wound , and said everi death wa be investig . unrwa ' s account talli with other report of abus in isra detent centr recent publish by isra and palestinian human right group as well as separ un investig . thi latest un report , which ha not been publish yet , wa base on interview with more than 100 detaine , part of a group of about 1 , 000 detaine unrwa wa abl to document sinc decemb after they were freed from three isra militari site . they includ peopl - both male and femal - between the age of six and 82 , includ 29 children . the agenc explain that thi inform wa obtain dure it role co - ordin humanitarian aid at the kerem shalom cross point between gaza and israel where the idf ha been releas detaine . inform wa also said to have been provid `` independ and voluntarili `` by palestinian releas from detent . in a comment sent to the bbc it describ the alleg as `` shock but unsurpris `` . the report said mani palestinian were apprehend in northern gaza as they took refug in hospit or school or as they tri to flee south to find shelter . other were gazan with work permit to enter israel . they were strand in israel when war broke out and were later detain . unrwa estim that more than 4 , 000 palestinian have been round up in gaza sinc the start of hostil spark by the hama attack on 7 octob when nearli 1 , 200 isra , mostli civilian , were kill , and more than 250 isra and foreign were taken hostag . in the war which follow , now in it fifth month , more than 30 , 000 palestinian have been kill accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri . unrwa itself ha been the focu of inquiri dure thi war . israel ha repeatedli accus it of support hama and hire it member . the un agenc , whose 13 , 000 staff are regard as the backbon of humanitarian oper in gaza , ha deni the charg . but it immedi termin the contract of employe accus in an isra document of play a part in the 7 octob attack . the claim , also be investig by the un , led nearli 20 countri and institut to suspend fund . but the eu recent resum it support and other are reportedli prepar to do so . `` unrwa is face a deliber and concert campaign to undermin it oper , and ultim end them , '' commission gener philipp lazzarini recent told a special meet of the un gener assembl amid call in israel for the agenc to be dismantl . in the introduct to it intern report , unrwa highlight that it is not a comprehens account of all the issu regard detent dure the war , includ hostag held by hama , or other concern regard the treatment of hostag in gaza by palestinian arm group .