israel ha told ten of thousand more palestinian to leav rafah , as it intensifi militari oper in southern gaza . flyer drop from the air and post on social media told resid in the citi ' s eastern district to go to al - mawasi - a narrow coastal area which israel call an `` expand humanitarian zone `` . part of rafah where the street were pack with local and displac peopl just day ago , now look like a ghost town . israel ha said it will proceed with plan oper in rafah despit the us and other alli warn that a ground offens could lead to mass civilian casualti and a humanitarian crisi . on saturday , us presid joe biden said a ceasefir in gaza wa possibl as soon as the next day if hama releas it hostag . '' israel said it ' s up to hama , if they want to do it , we could end it tomorrow . and the ceasefir would begin tomorrow , '' he told a fund - rais event in seattl . israel say 128 peopl taken hostag by hama on 7 octob are unaccount for , 36 of whom are presum dead . imag show smoke rise over rafah on saturday and wit quot by afp report air strike near the cross with egypt . post on x , formerli twitter , the israel defens forc ( idf ) said that dure the past day troop had been engag in `` face - to - face battl `` with hama fighter in rafah . the idf ad that soldier had found `` a number of underground shaft `` in the area . in the past day , there have been dozen of isra air strike across the length of the gaza strip , with the isra militari say it ’ s target what it call terrorist and terrorist infrastructur . on saturday even the idf said it wa `` current strike hama terror target in the jabaliya area `` , in the far north of the gaza strip . earlier it instruct resid to leav some area of northern gaza . it said they should `` temporarili evacu to shelter in western gaza citi `` . isra media report that sever hama rocket were fire at ashkelon overnight , a port citi about 10km ( six mile ) north of the gaza border . the time of israel say three peopl were lightli injur when one rocket hit their home . israel ' s plan to extend it ground offens to the southern tip of the gaza strip - where hundr of thousand of palestinian have sought refug from fight elsewher in the territori , ha spark intern concern . last week , presid biden said the us would not suppli heavi weapon to israel which could be use in a major assault on rafah . in an interview with cnn , biden said america would continu to give israel the weapon it need to defend itself , includ interceptor for it “ iron dome ” air defenc system . but he said us - suppli heavi weapon had alreadi kill civilian in gaza , and warn israel would not keep washington ' s support if it carri out militari oper in those popul centr . uk foreign secretari david cameron ha said britain is oppos to the militari oper in rafah , but is unlik to follow america in delay arm sale to israel . on friday , isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu said he hope to overcom hi differ with mr biden - but vow to press ahead with it militari assault on rafah . '' if we need to ... we will stand alon . i have said that if necessari we will fight with our fingernail , '' mr netanyahu said . saturday ' s evacu order come hour after a us state depart report said israel may have use american - suppli weapon in breach of intern humanitarian law in some instanc dure the war in gaza . it is `` reason to assess `` that those arm have been use in way `` inconsist `` with israel ' s oblig , the report said , but ad the us did not have complet inform in it assess and that shipment could continu . aid agenc have warn that the continu isra militari oper in southern gaza mean palestinian will be left without ani place of safeti . khitam al - khatib , a rafah resid who said she had lost at least 10 of her rel in an airstrik on a famili hous earlier on saturday , told reuter there wa `` no safe place in gaza `` . '' they threw flier on rafah and said , from rafah to al - zawayda is safe , peopl should evacu there , and they did , and what ha becom of them ? dismemb bodi ? '' she wa quot as say . the chariti oxfam ha said that the area ha no function hospit and aid suppli are extrem limit . the largest of rafah ' s three partial function hospit , abu youssef al - najjar , had to be hastili abandon the follow day after staff receiv an evacu order and there wa fight nearbi . the un ' s agenc for palestinian refuge ha also express concern about the condit in the al - mawasi encamp where peopl are be told to go . sam rose from unrwa told bbc news that the area had virtual no facil for the number be sent there . '' it ' s peopl live in shack , peopl live in tent by the side of a sandi beach road . veri difficult in term of here provid servic . '' there ' s no water network there . there ' s no infrastructur , sewag , sanit , '' he said . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag , accord to isra author . more than 34 , 900 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri .