a us militari ship is sail toward the middl east , carri equip to build a temporari pier off the coast of gaza , the armi say . the support ship , gener frank s besson , set sail from a militari base in the state of virginia on saturday . it come after presid joe biden said the us would build the float harbour to help get aid into gaza by sea . the un ha warn that famin in the gaza strip is `` almost inevit `` and children are starv to death . the us and jordan carri out an airdrop on sunday , parachut in more than 11 , 500 meal that includ rice , flour , pasta , and can food , the us militari said . aid deliveri by land and air have prove difficult and danger . the world food programm had to paus land deliveri after it convoy came under gunfir and loot . and on friday , there were report that five peopl had been kill by a fall aid packag , when it parachut fail to open properli . the us ship depart `` less than 36 hour `` after mr biden made hi announc , us central command wrote on x . it is `` carri the first equip to establish a temporari pier to deliv vital humanitarian suppli `` to gaza , the statement continu . the pentagon ha said it could take up to 60 day to build the pier with the help of 1 , 000 troop - none of whom would go ashor . chariti have said those suffer in gaza can not wait that long . meanwhil , an aid ship laden with some 200 tonn of food had been expect to set sail from a port in larnaca , cypru on sunday afternoon , cypriot media report . howev as sunday night tick into monday morn , it wa still dock in cypru . the chariti world central kitchen ( wck ) , which ha provid the food aid , told the bbc : `` thi maritim oper remain a quickli evolv and fluid situat ... we plan to embark as soon as possibl . '' it follow an eu announc that a new sea rout would be open over the weekend to allow aid to sail directli from cypru - the closest eu countri to gaza . the ship , open arm , belong to the spanish chariti of the same name . exactli where it plan to dock when it reach gaza ha not been publicli reveal . gaza ha no function port and it surround water are too shallow for larg vessel , but wck said it team had been build a jetti off the coast to receiv the aid . the chariti ad that it plan are `` not relat `` to the float pier the us is aim to build . israel ha welcom the ocean initi , and said aid would be deliv after secur check were carri out in cypru `` in accord with isra standard `` . israel ' s militari launch an air and ground campaign in the gaza strip after hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob , in which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 30 , 900 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say . the conflict ha creat a grow humanitarian crisi , and the un ha warn that at least 576 , 000 peopl across the gaza strip - one quarter of the popul - are face catastroph level of food insecur . western countri have press israel to expand land deliveri by facilit more rout and open addit cross . lorri have been enter the south of gaza through the egyptian - control rafah cross and the isra - control kerem shalom cross . but the north , which wa the focu of the first phase of the isra ground offens , ha been larg cut off from assist in recent month . an estim 300 , 000 palestinian are live there with littl food or clean water . israel ha been accus of hamper aid effort , and an independ un expert last week accus it of mount `` a starvat campaign against the palestinian peopl in gaza `` . yeela cytrin , a legal advis at the isra mission to the un , respond that `` israel utterli reject alleg that it is use starvat as a tool of war `` , befor walk out in protest .