palestinian presid mahmoud abba say the us is the onli countri that can stop israel from attack rafah , the southern gaza citi where more than a million peopl are take refug . mr abba , who run part of the occupi west bank , said ani attack could see palestinian flee gaza . israel ha consist vow to carri out an offens in rafah . us presid joe biden `` reiter hi clear posit `` on rafah to israel pm benjamin netanyahu in a call on sunday . the us ha repeatedli said it can not support a larg - scale isra militari oper in rafah without see a credibl plan to keep civilian out of harm ' s way . speak at the world econom forum ( wef ) in the saudi capit riyadh earlier , mr abba - whose palestinian author is not present in gaza , which ha been under hama rule sinc 2007 - urg the us to interven . `` we appeal to the unit state of america to ask israel to stop the rafah oper becaus america is the onli countri capabl of prevent israel from commit thi crime , '' he said , ad that onli a `` small strike `` on rafah would forc the palestinian popul to flee the gaza strip . `` the biggest catastroph in the palestinian peopl ' s histori would then happen . '' more than half of gaza ' s popul is in rafah and condit in the overcrowd southern citi are alreadi dire , with displac peopl there tell the bbc there wa a lack of food , water and medic . while the white hous did not elabor on what specif mr biden ' s latest comment to mr netanyahu were regard the plan offens in rafah , nation secur spokesman john kirbi told the abc network that israel had agre to listen to us concern and thought befor go in . us secretari of state antoni blinken ha arriv in riyadh where he will hold talk with mr abba at the start of a new middl east tour . meanwhil , the indirect negoti between israel and hama over a potenti ceasefir and the releas of remain hostag in gaza , which have gain new momentum recent , have been further expos divis in israel ' s govern coalit . war cabinet member and opposit figur benni gantz on sunday said that the current govern `` would not have the right to continu to exist `` if a reason deal to return the hostag wa not accept . `` enter rafah is import in the long struggl against hama . the return of our abducte , is urgent and of far greater import , '' mr gantz wrote on x , formerli twitter . the far - right financ minist bezalel smotrich , howev , said the govern should resign if it accept a deal in which the plan offens in rafah wa cancel . their comment come after israel ' s foreign minist said that the countri could suspend the incurs , which mr netanyahu ha said is the next step in it battl against hama , if there wa a hostag deal . the isra militari said it chief herzi halevi had approv plan to continu the war , with isra media say thi refer to the rafah oper . long - run talk mediat by egypt and qatar have larg stall becaus of the gap between the isra and hama posit , but on sunday hama said it would send repres to cairo to give a respons to the latest propos . us media have quot unnam egyptian offici as say the latest ceasefir propos given to hama involv a sever - week period of calm intend to lead to the end of the war , in return for the releas of 20 hostag . hama want a perman end to the war and withdraw of all isra troop from gaza , while israel insist hama must be destroy in gaza and all hostag freed . egypt and other arab state have previous said an influx of palestinian refuge flee the war would be unaccept becaus it would amount to the expuls of palestinian from their land . satellit pictur have shown new tent encamp be built near the gaza coast , to the west of rafah and the citi of khan youni slightli further north , which ha been left larg in ruin . media report say the tent are to accommod peopl displac from rafah . the current war began when hama attack isra commun near gaza , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mainli civilian , and take about 250 hostag . some 133 hostag are believ still to be in gaza , of whom about 30 are thought to be dead , after a brief truce in novemb saw some hostag releas . thi week hama ' s arm wing releas two video show the first proof of life of three hostag sinc they were abduct last octob . israel ' s campaign of aerial bombard and ground oper in gaza sinc 7 octob ha kill 34 , 454 peopl , mostli civilian , accord to the hama - run health ministri there . over the six month of war , the israel defens forc ( idf ) have enter and taken control of all of northern gaza includ gaza citi and most of central and southern gaza includ khan youni . they have sinc withdrawn from almost all of those area but troop remain station on a road israel ha built that separ northern and southern gaza . howev , palestinian displac to southern gaza - where the isra militari told them to go for their own safeti earlier in the war - have been unabl to return to home further north , a key demand hama is make in ceasefir talk , and israel ha given no indic when they will be allow to . meanwhil , deadli isra bombard ha continu across gaza , includ in rafah , with the isra militari say it ha been strike launch site for projectil .