five peopl have die after a parachut fail on an aid packag drop by air into gaza on friday , report say . an eyewit and the hama - run health ministri in gaza said the five were kill when at least one parachut fail to deploy and a parcel fell on them , the bbc ' s us partner cb report . afp news agenc quot a gaza doctor as say five peopl were kill . the bbc ha not independ verifi thi . it is unclear which air drop wa involv in the incid . the us , jordan , egypt , franc , the netherland and belgium have been drop aid into gaza in recent day as concern about famin among the popul grow . jordanian state tv quot a sourc as deni that a jordanian aircraft wa involv in the incid . cb news report the incid happen at about 11 : 30 local time ( 09 : 30 gmt ) . us central command confirm a joint air drop of aid into gaza with the royal jordanian air forc happen at about 13 : 30 local time . us gen patrick ryder said it air drop wa not involv in the incid , ad `` we ' ve confirm that all of our aid bundl land safe on the ground `` . the un say a quarter of gaza ' s 2 . 3m popul is on the brink of famin and children are starv to death . a video post to social media on friday and verifi by bbc news show aid drop from a c - 17 cargo plane over al - shati , north of gaza citi , in an area larg cut off from assist in recent month . while most of the larg packag of aid fall with parachut deploy , one fail to open and fall in a more uncontrol way . it is difficult to say from the video , a screenshot from which is abov , what may have gone wrong . we do not know if thi footag captur the incid in which peopl were reportedli kill . aid organis have been critic of the air drop , say they were a last resort and incap of meet the soar need . on friday the eu , uk , us and other said they plan to open a sea rout to gaza to deliv aid that could begin oper thi weekend . the us ha said it will construct a temporari harbour to ship aid directli into gaza , but us offici have said it will take week to make . western countri have press israel to expand deliveri of aid by road , facilit more rout and open addit cross . uk foreign secretari david cameron said : `` we continu to urg israel to allow more truck into gaza as the fastest way to get aid to those who need it . '' israel deni imped the entri of aid to gaza and accus aid organis of fail to distribut it . aid lorri have been enter the south of gaza through the egyptian - control rafah cross and the isra - control kerem shalom cross . but the north , which wa the focu of the first phase of the isra ground offens , ha been larg cut off from assist in recent month . an estim 300 , 000 palestinian are live there with littl food or clean water . last week more than 100 peopl were kill tri to reach a ground aid convoy amid the grow desper . palestinian said most were shot by isra troop . the isra militari , which wa overse the privat aid deliveri , on friday said it troop did not fire at palestinian around an aid convoy but at `` suspect `` nearbi who they deem a threat . israel ' s militari launch an air and ground campaign in gaza after hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob , in which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 30 , 800 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say . addit report by bbc verifi