the us ha carri out it first airdrop of humanitarian aid for gaza , with more than 30 , 000 meal parachut in by three militari plane . the oper , carri out jointli with jordan ' s air forc , wa the first of mani announc by presid joe biden . the head of a well - known aid organis told the bbc he thought there wa a famin in northern gaza . at least 112 peopl were kill as crowd rush to an aid convoy outsid gaza citi on thursday . hama ha accus them for the kill . israel deni thi and say it is investig . the first us airdrop come as a top us offici said the framework of a deal for a six - week ceasefir in gaza wa in place . the biden administr offici said on saturday that israel had `` more or less accept `` the deal . `` it will be a six - week ceasefir in gaza start today if hama agre to releas the defin categori of vulner hostag ( ... ) the sick , the wound , elderli and women , '' the unnam offici said . mediat are due to reconven in cairo on sunday , and egyptian offici said deleg from both hama and israel were expect to arriv for the negoti . one offici said certain technic issu around a possibl deal still need to be resolv , such as how mani palestinian prison would be releas by israel in exchang for hostag held by hama . on saturday c - 130 transport plane drop more than 38 , 000 meal along the gaza coastlin , us central command said in a statement . `` these airdrop are part of a sustain effort to get more aid into gaza , includ by expand the flow of aid through land corridor and rout , '' it ad . other countri includ the uk , franc , egypt and jordan have previous airdrop aid into gaza , but thi is the first by the us . jan egeland , head of aid organis the norwegian refuge council , ha just return from a three - day visit to gaza . `` i wa prepar for nightmar , but it is wors , much wors , '' mr egeland told the bbc on sunday . `` peopl want to take your hand ... say ' we are starv , we are die here '. `` i think there is famin in the north , '' he said , ad that there had been no aid for 300 , 000 peopl live in ruin , with israel not allow ani through . us administr offici said that thursday ' s `` tragic incid `` had highlight `` the import of expand and sustain the flow of humanitarian assist into gaza in respons to the dire humanitarian situat `` . aid agenc have said that airdrop are an ineffici way of deliv aid . `` airdrop are expens , haphazard and usual lead to the wrong peopl get the aid , '' mr egeland said . displac gaza resid medhat taher told reuter news agenc that such a method wa woefulli inadequ . `` will thi be enough for a school ? is thi enough for 10 , 000 peopl ? '' he said . `` it ' s better to send aid via cross and better than airdrop via parachut . '' in hi statement on friday , presid biden said the us would `` insist that israel facilit more truck and more rout to get more and more peopl the help they need `` . us vice - presid kamala harri will meet isra war cabinet member benni gantz in washington on monday to discuss a truce and other issu , reuter quot a white hous offici as say . in thursday ' s incid , 112 peopl were kill and more than 760 injur as they crowd around aid lorri on the south - western edg of gaza citi . israel said most die in a crush after it fire warn shot . giorgio petropoulo , head of the gaza sub - offic of the un co - ordin for humanitarian affair ( ocha ) told the bbc that he and a team sent to al - shifa hospit had found a larg number of peopl with bullet wound . hama meanwhil said an isra bombard had kill at least 11 peopl at a camp in rafah in southern gaza on saturday . world health organ chief tedro adhanom ghebreyesu call the attack `` outrag `` . the isra armi said it had carri out a `` precis strike `` against islam jihad milit in the area . the un ' s world food programm ha warn that a famin is immin in northern gaza , which ha receiv veri littl aid in recent week , and where an estim 300 , 000 peopl are live with littl food or clean water . the israel militari launch a larg - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hama after it gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel on 7 octob and took 253 back to gaza as hostag . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri say more than 30 , 000 peopl , includ 21 , 000 children and women , have been kill in gaza sinc then with some 7 , 000 miss and at least 70 , 450 injur .