cross - border fight between isra forc and the lebanes group hezbollah have intensifi in recent day , rais fear of a further escal . hezbollah announc on thursday the death of two fighter , after the isra militari said it had struck site in southern and eastern lebanon . on wednesday , 14 isra soldier were wound in a missil and drone attack . hezbollah claim it wa a respons to strike a day earlier that the isra militari said kill two command . there have been exchang of fire almost everi day sinc the day after the start of the war between israel and hama in gaza in octob . hezbollah ha said it is act in support of the palestinian group . both are back by iran and proscrib as terrorist organis by israel , the uk and other countri . more than 330 peopl have been kill in lebanon , includ at least 66 civilian , accord to lebanes author and the un , while the isra militari say 10 soldier and eight civilian have been kill in israel . the hostil have also displac ten of thousand of peopl from border commun in northern israel and southern lebanon . on thursday morn , hezbollah ' s media offic put out statement say that two fighter had been `` martyr on the road to jerusalem `` - a phrase it ha been use to refer to fighter kill by isra fire . it name them as moham jamil al - shami and ali ahm hamada but provid no further detail . lebanon ' s state - run nation news agenc report that two peopl had been kill in an isra drone strike in the border villag kfarkela at dawn . warplan had also target the nearbi villag of khiam with `` six strike and more than 100 artilleri and phosphoru shell `` , it said . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said in a statement that it aircraft had `` elimin two hezbollah terrorist identifi in the area or kfarkela `` overnight . fighter jet meanwhil `` struck hezbollah terror target `` in area of khiam , includ infrastructur and militari structur , it ad . soldier also `` fire in order to remov an immin threat `` there , accord to the statement . on wednesday even , the idf said jet had struck `` signific hezbollah terrorist infrastructur `` use by the group ' s aerial defenc system in northern baalbek , which is in the bekaa valley in eastern lebanon . that came hour after hezbollah claim it had carri out an attack that the idf said injur 14 soldier , six of them serious and two moder . a number of anti - tank missil and explos drone were launch from lebanes territori toward the isra border villag of arab al - aramsh , accord to the idf . israel ' s haaretz newspap report that the attack saw the anti - tank missil hit a commun centr in the arab bedouin commun and nearbi car , follow by the incurs of two drone , one of which explod on impact . it said one of the injur soldier wa in a critic condit and that two member of an emerg respons squad and three civilian were also hurt . the idf said it struck the sourc of the fire , as well as hezbollah militari compound and infrastructur in the lebanes town of naqoura and yarin . hezbollah said what it had target wa the headquart of an isra militari reconnaiss unit in respons to `` the enemi ' s assassin of a number of resist fighter in ain baal and chehabiyeh `` . the idf said on tuesday that it aircraft had carri out strike in those area which kill ismail youssef baaz , who it said wa the command of hezbollah ' s coastal sector in ain baal , and moham hussein mustafa shehouri , who it said wa the command of the rocket and missil unit in the western region for the elit radwan forc . a member of that unit , mahmoud fadlullah , wa kill alongsid shehouri , it ad . while hezbollah confirm the death of the three men , it did not identifi baaz or shehouri as command . fear are grow that the cross - border hostil will escal into a wider region war , particularli after hezbollah ' s backer iran launch more than 300 drone and missil at israel over the weekend in retali for a deadli strike on the iranian consul in syria earlier thi month . the idf said 99 % of the drone and missil were shot down by it forc , western alli and arab partner , and that an airbas in southern israel sustain onli minor damag when it wa hit by four missil . a young bedouin girl wa injur by shrapnel . dozen of rocket were also fire from lebanon at northern israel dure the attack , while launch were also carri out from iraq and yemen , where iran - back arm group oper . israel vow to respond to iran ' s unpreced direct attack , but western power have urg restraint .