us vice - presid kamala harri express `` deep concern `` over gaza in talk with isra war cabinet member benni gantz , the white hous say . in a statement , ms harri ' s offic said she had urg israel to let more aid into gaza , while call on hama to accept term for a ceasefir . it said they discuss the need for a `` credibl `` humanitarian plan befor ani major militari oper in rafah . the us is ramp up pressur on israel to facilit more aid for gaza . us presid joe biden , who is run for re - elect thi novemb , is face polit pressur from fellow democrat over hi handl of the israel - gaza war . mr gantz ' s visit is be seen as a snub to isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu , who ha yet to receiv an invit to the white hous 15 month after hi right - wing coalit took offic . the moder chairman of israel ' s nation uniti parti , mr gantz ha prove a stiff polit oppon to mr netanyahu , despit join him as a member of hi war cabinet after the attack nearli five month ago by hama that trigger the conflict . the us vice - presid told report befor monday ' s meet : `` israel ha a right to defend itself . `` far too mani palestinian civilian , innoc civilian have been kill . we need to get more aid in , we need to get hostag out . and that remain our posit . '' the meet took place while mr biden wa at camp david , the presidenti retreat just outsid washington . it came a day after ms harri , at a memori event to civil right marcher in alabama , forc demand that `` given the immens scale of suffer in gaza , there must be an immedi ceasefir `` of at least six week . the us ha been work to broker such an agreement between hama and israel with the help of qatar and egypt . mr gantz also spoke with nation secur advis jake sullivan at the white hous on monday . he wa expect to meet secretari of state antoni blinken , too , dure hi visit . nation secur council spokesperson john kirbi said dure a brief on monday that mr gantz had request the washington meet . mr kirbi declin to address mr netanyahu ' s concern over the visit . owe to the difficulti of get humanitarian assist to gaza , the us airdrop aid over the weekend . last week , at least 112 palestinian were reportedli kill when larg crowd descend on lorri carri aid while isra tank were present . israel said the tank fire warn shot , but did not strike the lorri and that mani of the dead were trampl or run over . thi ha been disput by hama , which said there wa `` undeni `` evid of `` direct fire at citizen `` . the isra militari launch a larg - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hama after the group ' s gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel on 7 octob and took 253 back to gaza as hostag . more than 30 , 500 peopl , mostli women and children , have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s health ministri . hama is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the uk , us and other .