gp is be block across swath of israel in order to disrupt missil and drone , as tension rise with iran . iran ha vow to respond after a strike on it consul build in syria on monday - which israel wa wide believ to be behind - kill 13 peopl , includ a senior gener . the israel defens forc ( idf ) also announc it wa halt all leav for soldier serv with combat unit . it come a day after reservist were call up to bolster air defenc unit . isra author seem to believ an iranian respons is immin and could come as soon as friday , which is qud day - or jerusalem day - the last friday in the muslim holi month of ramadan . it is a day which ha frequent been use to stage pro - palestinian and anti - israel ralli , particularli in iran . on thursday , gp system were be disrupt in central part of israel , a defens measur design to interfer with weapon which reli on it to set their locat . isra citizen report be unabl to use locat - base app servic in major citi like tel aviv and jerusalem far from activ combat zone . monitor websit gpsjam show widespread interfer with locat signal across israel . a bbc produc said her gp had locat her in cairo when she wa in jerusalem , and other user have share similar account on social media . idf spokesman rear adm daniel hagari confirm the countri is use gp block - which is sometim refer to as `` spoof `` . isra have been urg to manual set their locat on the app which issu alert about incom rocket attack to ensur it remain accur amid the gp interfer , the time of israel report . gp is alreadi disrupt in northern israel , near the border with lebanon , where israel and the iranian - back group hezbollah have exchang fire almost daili for the last six month . separ , the idf ha urg peopl not to panic buy . write on x , formerli twitter , rear adm hagari said : `` there is no need to buy gener , store food and withdraw money from atm . `` as we have done until today , we will immedi updat ani chang if it is in an offici and orderli manner . '' media outlet in israel report some of the countri ' s embassi had been place on alert or evacu over potenti iranian attack . the bbc ha not independ verifi those report and israel ha not confirm them . israel ha not comment on the target of a build on iran ' s diplomat compound in damascu , the capit of syria , but ha been blame by the countri ' s leader ayatollah ali khamenei . iran ' s presid ebrahim raisi previous said the strike would `` not go unansw `` , though it is unclear what action iran could take in respons . among the 13 peopl kill in the strike were seven offic in iran ' s revolutionari guard , includ senior gener mohammad reza zahedi and hi deputi . zahedi is one of the most high - profil iranian figur believ to have been kill by israel in the countri ' s long campaign of target assassin . israel ha previous acknowledg carri out strike in syria on target it say are link to iran or it alli arm group . speak at a meet of the secur cabinet on thursday , prime minist benjamin netanyahu said israel is `` act against iran and it proxi , defens and offens `` . he continu : `` we will know how to defend ourselv and we will act accord to the simpl principl of whoever harm us or plan to harm us , we will harm them . '' meanwhil , israel continu to come under intern pressur over the kill of seven aid worker oper in gaza on monday . the founder of the group whose worker were kill in appar drone strike said they had been target `` systemat , car by car `` . the death have prompt other aid group to stop deliveri into northern gaza over fear for the safeti of their staff . idf chief of gener staff herzi halevi apologis and said the incid happen becaus of misidentif , call it a `` grave mistak `` . us presid joe biden told mr netanyahu the kill of the aid worker and overal humanitarian situat in gaza were `` unaccept `` . mr biden urg the prime minist to agre to an immedi ceasefir and `` made clear the need for israel to announc and implement a seri of specif , concret , and measur step to address civilian harm , humanitarian suffer , and the safeti of aid worker `` , ad that `` us polici with respect to gaza will be determin by our assess of israel ' s immedi action on these step `` .