benjamin netanyahu respond with furi to the news that he might face an arrest warrant for war crime and crime against human . it wa `` a moral outrag of histor proport `` , he said . israel wa `` wage a just war against hama , a genocid terrorist organis that perpetr the worst attack on the jewish peopl sinc the holocaust . '' in a bitter person attack , mr netanyahu said karim khan , the chief prosecutor of the intern crimin court ( icc ) wa one of the `` great antisemit in modern time . '' mr khan , he said , wa like judg in nazi germani who deni jew basic right and enabl the holocaust . hi decis to seek arrest warrant against israel ’ s prime minist and defenc minist wa `` callous pour gasolin on the fire of antisemit that are rage around the world . ’ mr netanyahu spoke english on the video that wa releas by hi offic . he doe that when he want hi messag to reach the foreign audienc that matter most to him , in the us . react to the news , isra defenc minist , yoav gallant on tuesday describ the arrest warrant against him and prime minist benjamin netanyahu as a `` disgrac `` attempt to interfer in the war . '' the attempt of the prosecutor of the intern crimin court , karim khan , to revers the creation will not succeed - the parallel of the prosecutor between the terrorist organ hama and the state of israel is despic and disgust . '' he said in a post on x . befor ad : `` the state of israel is not a parti to the court and doe not recogn it author . '' the outrag express by the prime minist , and echo by israel ’ s polit leadership , wa gener by page of care chosen legal languag in a statement issu by mr khan , the icc chief prosecutor who is a british king ’ s counsel . word by word , line by line , they add up to a devast seri of alleg against the three most promin leader of hama as well as israel ’ s prime minist and defenc minist . a determin to appli intern law and the law of arm conflict to all parti , no matter who they are , lie at the heart of mr khan ’ s statement in which he lay out hi justif for request arrest warrant . `` no foot soldier , no command , no civilian leader - no one - can act with impun . '' the law , he say , can not be appli select . if that happen , `` we will be creat condit for it collaps `` . it is the decis to hold both side ’ conduct up to the templat of intern law that is caus so much anger , and not just in israel . us presid joe biden said it wa `` outrag `` to appli for arrest warrant . there wa `` no equival - none - between israel and hama `` . hama demand the withdraw of the alleg against it leader , claim that the icc ’ s prosecutor wa `` equat the victim with the execution `` . it said the request to issu arrest warrant for the isra leadership came seven month too late , after `` the isra occup commit thousand of crime `` . mr khan doe not make direct comparison between the two side , except to lay out hi claim that they have both commit a seri of war crime and crime against human . he also emphasis that thi latest war come in the context of `` an intern arm conflict between israel and palestin , and a non - intern arm conflict between israel and hama `` . the court treat palestin as a state as it ha observ statu at the unit nation , which meant it wa abl to sign up to the rome statut which creat the icc . mr netanyahu ha declar that palestinian will never have independ on hi watch . instead of see disgrac and fals parallel between , as israel ’ s presid isaac herzog put it , `` these atroci terrorist and a democrat elect govern of israel `` , human right group have applaud the way that the icc prosecutor is seek to appli the law to both side . b ' tselem , a lead isra human right organis , said the warrant mark `` israel ’ s rapid declin into a moral abyss `` . `` the intern commun is signal to israel that it can no longer maintain it polici of violenc , kill and destruct without account , '' it ad . human right campaign have complain for mani year that power western countri , led by the us , turn a blind eye to isra violat of intern law , even as they condemn and sanction other state who are not in their camp . the action be taken by mr khan and hi team are , they believ , long overdu . mr khan say that the three main leader of hama commit war crime that includ extermin , murder , hostag - take , rape and tortur . the men name are yahya sinwar , the hama leader in gaza , moham deif , the command of the qassam brigad , it militari wing , and ismail haniyeh , head of the hama polit bureau . as part of their investig , karim khan and hi team interview victim and survivor of the 7 octob attack . he said hama had assault fundament human valu : `` the love within a famili , the deepest bond between a parent and a child were contort to inflict unfathom pain through calcul cruelti and extrem callous `` . israel , mr khan said , doe have the right to defend itself . but `` unconscion crime `` did not `` absolv israel of it oblig to compli with intern humanitarian law `` . the failur to do that , he said , justifi issu warrant for the arrest of mr netanyahu and defenc minist yoav gallant for crime includ starvat of civilian as a weapon of war , murder , extermin , and intent attack on civilian . from the start of israel ’ s respons to the hama attack of 7 octob , presid biden ha issu a seri of rebuk to israel , express concern that it wa kill too mani palestinian civilian and destroy too much civilian infrastructur in gaza . but in a care balanc act with a close alli which he ha alway support , mr biden and hi administr have not spelt out in public about what they mean . mr khan make hi interpret crystal clear . israel , he say , ha chosen crimin mean to achiev it war aim in gaza - `` name , intent caus death , starvat , great suffer , and seriou injuri `` to civilian . a panel of judg at the icc now will consid whether to issu the arrest warrant . state sign up to the icc ’ s rome statut would then be oblig to detain the men if they had the chanc . the 124 signatori do not includ russia , china and the us . israel ha not sign either . but the icc ha rule that it doe have legal author to prosecut crimin act in the war becaus the palestinian are signatori . if the arrest warrant are issu , it would mean that mr netanyahu , israel ’ s longest - serv prime minist , would not be abl to visit close western alli without risk arrest . uk prime minist rishi sunak said the icc ’ s action were `` not help to reach a paus in the fight , get hostag out or humanitarian aid in `` . but if the warrant are issu , britain would have to make the arrest , unless it could argu success that mr netanyahu had diplomat immun . an all - import except for mr netanyahu and mr gallant is the us . the white hous believ the icc doe not have jurisdict in the conflict , a posit that might widen the split insid joe biden ’ s democrat parti over the war . progress have alreadi welcom the icc ’ s action . staunch alli of israel among the democrat might support republican move to pass a law to sanction icc offici or ban them from the us . as rumour of impend indict churn through europ , america and the middl east week ago , a group of republican senat issu the kind of threat to mr khan and hi staff that they might have heard in a movi . `` target israel and we will target you ... you have been warn . '' yoav gallant would also be unabl to travel freeli . the word he use when announc that israel would besieg gaza ha been frequent quot by critic of israel ’ s conduct . two day after the hama attack on 7 octob , mr gallant said : `` i have order a complet sieg on the gaza strip . there will be no electr , no food , no fuel , everyth is close … we are fight human anim and we are act accordingli `` . mr khan write in hi statement that `` israel ha intent and systemat depriv the civilian popul in all part of gaza of object indispens to human surviv `` . famin , he say , is present in part of gaza and immin in other . israel deni there is a famin , claim that food shortag are caus not by their sieg - but by hama theft and un incompet . if an arrest warrant is grant for ismail haniyeh , the head of the hama polit branch , he will have to think harder about hi regular trip to meet senior arab leader . he is like to spend much more time at hi base in qatar , which like israel , did not sign the rome statut that set up the icc . the other two accus hama leader , yahya sinwar and moham deif , are believ to be hide somewher insid gaza . an arrest warrant doe not add much to the pressur on them . israel ha been tri to kill them for the last seven month . the warrant would also put mr netanyahu in a categori of accus leader that also includ russian presid vladmir putin , and late colonel muammar gaddafi of libya . mr putin face an arrest warrant for the unlaw deport and transfer of children from ukrain to russia . befor he wa kill by hi own peopl , col gaddafi ’ s arrest warrant wa for murder and persecut of unarm civilian . it is not attract compani for benjamin netanyahu , the leader of a state that pride itself on it democraci .