for about three month , adnan el - bursh report on the war in gaza while live in a tent , eat one meal a day , and struggl to keep hi wife and five children safe . the bbc arab correspond share the harrow moment he face cover a war that push him to hi limit . warn : thi report contain descript and imag some reader may find distress one of the worst moment of the past six month wa the night we all slept on the street . i look at the face of my wife and children , huddl in the bitter cold in khan youni in southern gaza , and felt helpless . my 19 - year - old twin , zakia and batoul , lay on the pavement alongsid my daughter , yumna , who is 14 , my son moham , who is eight and my youngest girl , razan , age five , with their mother , zaynab . as we tri to rest outsid the palestinian red crescent societi ' s headquart , the sound of shell echo through the night and drone buzz overhead . we had manag to find an apart to rent , but the landlord had call earlier that day , say the isra militari had warn him the build would be bomb . i wa work at the time , but my famili grab their bag and fled . we met up at the red crescent headquart , which wa alreadi overflow with displac peopl . my brother and i sat on cardboard box all night , discuss what we should do . we had fled our home in the town of jabalia a few day earlier , on 13 octob , leav most of our possess behind , after the isra militari told everyon in northern gaza to move south for safeti . and now we had just escap be bomb in the area we had been told to move to . it wa hard to think straight . i felt angri , humili and terribl that i could not provid ani protect for my famili . eventu , my famili move to an apart in nuseirat in central gaza , while i stay with the bbc team in a tent at nasser hospit in khan youni . i visit everi few day . commun wa difficult , with internet and phone signal sometim cut . onc i did not hear from my famili for four or five day . in khan youni , the bbc team - about seven of us - live on one meal a day . even when there wa food , sometim we did not eat it becaus there wa hardli anywher to go to the toilet . dure thi time my friend , al jazeera bureau chief wael al - dahdouh , suffer a terribl loss . the hous hi famili had been stay in wa hit in an isra air strike . hi wife , teenag son , seven - year - old daughter and one - year - old grandson were kill . the isra militari say it take `` feasibl precaut `` to reduc civilian casualti , and in thi case had `` target hama terrorist infrastructur in the area `` . report gaza : my war in gaza , palestinian journalist document the war as they live it on a daili basi . in thi bbc world servic film , we hear the stori of bbc arab ' s report in gaza , adnan el - bursh who found himself report the news , as he wa live through it . watch now on bbc iplay ( uk onli ) or on the bbc world servic youtub channel ( outsid uk ) i watch the footag of my friend , who i have known for 20 year , embrac hi children ' s shroud - wrap bodi in central gaza . i wish i wa there with him . the news came amid a string of report about the death of other friend , rel and neighbour . my heart ach . i have now lost about 200 peopl in the war . that day i wept live on air , as i wa report . in the night , i woke up with tear cover my cheek . wael ' s imag never left my mind . i have cover conflict in gaza for 15 year , but thi war stand apart , from the unpreced attack that trigger it , to the scale of the loss . at 06 : 15 on 7 octob i wa woken by loud explos and my children scream . i went up to the rooftop and saw rocket be launch toward israel from gaza . when we realis hama had breach the fenc into israel - in it assault that saw about 1 , 200 peopl kill and 250 taken hostag - we knew the respons from israel would be like noth we had seen befor . more than 34 , 000 peopl have now been kill in gaza , accord to the hama - run health ministri . the risk of injuri and death ha been ever - present . two day into the war , i hurri to our local market in jabalia , to stock up with food . it wa busi with other do the same . but the area wa bomb heavili just 10 minut after i left . the entir place wa destroy , includ the larg groceri store where i had shop moment earlier . i knew the face of the shop owner . mani of them were among the dead . amnesti intern say at least 69 peopl were kill in the attack and that it should be investig as a war crime . the isra militari ha not respond to the bbc ' s question about thi incid . throughout the war it ha said it oper is target hama , which it say oper from civilian locat . it also say `` strike on militari target are subject to relev provis of intern law `` . befor the war , jabalia wa a beauti , tranquil town . i wa born there and had been live a simpl , content life with my famili , fill with love and plan for the futur . i had a farm east of the town , where i had plant oliv , lemon , and orang tree with my own hand . it wa peac and i love to drink tea there after work . the day we decid to flee northern gaza for khan youni - leav our home and the bbc offic in gaza citi behind - wa a pivot moment in my life . with more than 10 peopl cram into one car , my famili and i crawl our way south , along a singl road , with ten of thousand of other peopl , on foot and in vehicl , all load with belong . the journey wa punctuat by air strike on nearbi area on both side of the road . confus , grief and uncertainti mark the face of my famili and the crowd . the children kept ask me : `` where are we go ? will we be back tomorrow ? '' i realli wish i had taken our photo album , full of pictur of me as a young child , my parent , and my wife and i when we got engag . my dad wa an arab teacher and i also wish i had taken some of hi book that i kept after he die . later , i learn from a neighbour that my hous had been complet destroy , and my farm burn . after that terrifi and surreal journey south , and our night outsid the red crescent headquart , i continu work from khan youni for sever week . my famili were still in nuseirat and be separ from them took a toll emot . then , in earli decemb , israel began tell gazan to leav part of khan youni and move to other area , includ rafah , further south . the isra militari also close the main road lead north , which connect me and my famili . i did not know how i would get to them or where we should go if i did . rafah wa alreadi overcrowd with hundr of thousand of peopl , and there wa bare anywher to stay . for day , i grappl with swirl emot . news circul about isra forc advanc toward the main road , appar aim to divid the south from the central and northern region . i wa terrifi that i - or my famili - would be kill and we would never see each other again . for the first time i felt like i had lost it . i did not even know what day it wa . i consid stop work and return to my famili . if we die , we would die togeth . in the end , on 11 decemb , i drove with a colleagu along a back road to nuseirat . when i arriv , my youngest children rush up to hug me , with razan reach round my neck and hold on tight . we manag to move the famili to rafah . the bbc team had also reloc there , continu to report . there were some aw moment . in late decemb , i report as the israel defens forc ( idf ) hand about 80 bodi to the author in gaza . the idf said it had taken them from gaza to israel so they could be check to see if there were ani hostag among them . a larg lorri drove into the cemeteri in the rafah area . the stench wa overwhelm when the contain wa open . men in apron and mask place the remain , wrap in blue plastic , in a mass grave dug by an excav in the sandi ground . i had never seen a scene like that befor . it is hard to describ how horribl it wa . then , in januari , i wa report from a hospit in rafah when sever bodi were brought in , includ anoth of wael al - dahdouh ' s son , hamza , hi eldest , who wa also a journalist work for al jazeera . who would tell wael ? it just seem imposs , after the tragedi he had alreadi face . i could not even listen as one of my colleagu call someon close to wael to pass on the news . hamza and hi colleagu , freelanc videograph mustafa thuraya , were kill in an isra air strike on their car , after they had report on the aftermath of anoth strike in the area . the isra militari alleg they were `` member of gaza - base terrorist organis `` . the famili and al jazeera reject the claim as fals . the idf say the two were oper drone `` pose an immin threat to idf troop `` , but a washington post investig `` found no indic that either man wa oper as anyth other than a journalist that day `` . more than 100 journalist have been kill in gaza sinc 7 octob , accord to report without border - the vast major are known to be palestinian . the idf say it `` ha never , and will never , deliber target journalist `` . it say it `` take all oper feasibl measur to mitig harm to civilian includ journalist `` , but `` remain in an activ combat zone ha inher risk `` . eventu , the news came that the bbc team ' s famili had permiss to leav gaza . four week later , we too final left through the rafah cross , facilit by the egyptian author . i am write thi in qatar . but i know that in jabalia , they have been pull up grass and grind anim feed to eat , while i ' m here have meal in a clean hotel . i find it hard to eat - it ' s like eat poison . the futur is a blur . gaza is my life . i want to return one day , but for now , that seem imposs .