hundr of peopl march to the venu for the world athlet indoor championship in glasgow to protest against the conflict in gaza . pro - palestinian demonstr gather in the east end of the citi at barrowland park . the march finish at the emir arena where the championship are be held thi weekend . scottish athlet laura muir and josh kerr are among those compet in final on saturday . and middl - distanc runner jemma reeki qualifi fastest for the 800m final on sunday . activist have held demonstr in citi and town across scotland regularli sinc hostil began in the middl east in octob . the glasgow event wa organis by a coalit of group call the gaza genocid emerg committe . wael shawish , from the scottish palestin societi , which is an affili of the committe , said the march call for a boycott of israel at global athlet event . he said : `` we want to send a messag to the author within the athlet feder that israel , base on what they are do in gaza now , should not be allow to take part in ani athlet event until they start respect intern law and palestinian human right . '' the march follow prime minist rishi sunak ' s down street speech on friday where he said islamist and the far - right were `` two side of the same extremist coin `` who loath britain . mr sunak also express concern about the regular protest take place in respons to the israel - gaza conflict . but mr shawish said : `` we have been go everi week sinc 8 octob . `` there have been no issu with secur or violenc or break ani law . '' dr moira leng also attend the march for the glasgow healthcar for palestin vigil . she told bbc scotland : `` we meet everi singl week as healthcar worker to rememb our colleagu who have been kill , includ four isra healthcar worker , and to share their stori . `` the commun in glasgow is seek to rais awar of what ' s happen and the aw , aw oppress and kill . `` my colleagu in gaza have sent me the most horrif pictur and first - hand stori of peopl so desper for food that they ' re queu up at 02 : 30 and they end up dead . '' dr leng ad the march alway left her with a sens of `` solidar and sad `` . she said : `` i want to be here today to rememb and bear wit and say thi is not ok . `` and i know the peopl of scotland have come out strongli and said thi is not ok . '' on friday labour lost the rochdal constitu in greater manchest to georg galloway , leader of the worker parti of britain . labour had withdrawn support for their candid azhar ali follow remark wide alleg to be antisemit . mr galloway ha long campaign on caus relat to the middl east , includ for palestinian right . israel militari launch a larg - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hama - which is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the uk and other - after it gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel on 7 octob . the group also took 253 peopl back to gaza as hostag . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri say more than 30 , 000 peopl , includ 21 , 000 children and women , have been kill in gaza sinc then . some 7 , 000 are also miss and at least 70 , 450 have been injur , accord to the ministri .