a green parti candid who share anti - semit materi relat to the gaza conflict on social media ha apologis , the parti ha said . the parti wa contact by the govern ' s anti - semit advis , lord mann , over post by bristol candid moham makawi and abdul malik from octob 2023 . one of the post show part of a hama press confer , while the other made fals claim about the kill of isra citizen . the green parti said mr makawi had ha sinc apologis and undertaken social media train , while mr malik wa `` unwittingli `` implic by be tag in the post . the post follow the hama attack on 7 octob , when wave of gunmen storm across gaza ' s border into israel , kill about 1 , 200 peopl . mr malik told the bbc he did not put up the post show hama spokesmen and said he complet condemn the attack on israel . mr makawi ha also been approach for comment . meanwhil lord mann , who wrote to the parti ' s co - leader about the alleg , ha criticis the green parti for take so long to respond . he said he wa `` disappoint `` the green onli respond to hi letter , which wa sent on 5 april , three week later , after the bbc contact the parti . '' i ' m a littl puzzl , '' he said . '' the green parti ha creat a bigger problem for itself by not respond immedi . '' a green parti spokesperson said it ha respond to lord mann with `` evid of the action we have taken to remov these ill - judg and offens commun `` and offer to meet him to continu discuss . '' in one case , it appear the candid wa unwittingli tag into an offens post that he assur us he did not himself publish , '' they said . '' he delet thi post from hi timelin as soon as we made him awar of it . '' in the other case , the candid gave credenc to some egregi misinform by share it onlin . he ha sinc apologis and undertaken social media train . '' in our respons to lord mann we also reiter that the green parti ha repeatedli condemn the appal hama attack of 7th octob , and call for the uncondit releas of isra hostag , as well as call for a bilater ceasefir . '' follow bbc bristol on facebook , x and instagram . send your stori idea to us on email or via whatsapp on 0800 313 4630 .