an isra missil hit iran earli on friday morn , accord to us offici . blast were heard in the central provinc of isfahan , which is home to nuclear facil , a larg airbas and a major missil product complex . israel ha not confirm it wa respons but had vow to respond to a massiv iranian missil and drone attack on it territori last weekend . iranian offici and media claim the attack did not inflict ani damag . while us offici confirm the strike happen to the bbc ' s partner station cb news , the respons from tehran ha been mute and mild . some offici have deni outright that it even took place at all , and one mock it as `` a fail attack `` involv just a `` few quadcopt `` . while it is not possibl to independ verifi the damag it may have caus , the strike appear to have been limit in it scope . no casualti have been report . it appear to be a care calibr respons by israel to iran ' s missil attack last weekend , aim at balanc the demand of those in israel demand a tough respons and the worldwid appeal for calm . iran had been on high alert after israel said it would respond to the unpreced iranian attack , which saw more than 300 drone and missil fire toward israel - most of which were shot down . that attack wa in respons to a presum isra strike on iran ' s consul in the syrian capit damascu , which kill senior militari command . world leader have been urg the two middl east rival to deescal rise tension in recent day , though israel had repeatedli signal it intend to retali in some form . sever iranian nuclear facil are base in isfahan , which iran say are use for pure peac purpos , though israel and western power have long suspect tehran of secretli develop nuclear weapon . both iranian media and the intern atom energi agenc ( iaea ) said no nuclear site were damag in thi strike . israel appear to have heed appeal from alli not to risk further escal with a larg respons , but sought to send a messag that it can strike close to iran ' s nuclear programm and that next time it could be with much greater forc . iran ' s semi - offici far news agenc , which is close to the islam revolut guard corp ( irgc ) , said explos were heard near isfahan intern airport and an armi base in isfahan citi , activ local air defenc system . video from isfahan obtain by bbc persian show orang flash in the night sky and the sound of what appear to be burst of anti - aircraft fire . hamish de bretton gordon , a former command of uk and nato nuclear forc , told bbc news the attack appear to have been `` fairli near to where we believ iran is build nuclear weapon , so i expect it wa a nod to them `` . speak at the g7 , us secretari of state antoni blinken said the us wa `` not involv in ani offens oper `` . earlier , the italian foreign minist told report the us had been inform of israel ' s plan `` at the last minut `` . the strike in iran coincid with report blast in syria and iraq . the syrian defenc ministri said an air defenc posit wa hit by israel , while report in iraq said part of an isra missil had been found on it territori . in recent day , iranian leader had warn that ani isra attack on iran would trigger a swift respons . howev , hour after friday ' s attack an unnam iranian offici told reuter news agenc it might not have been carri out by a `` foreign `` sourc and that there were no plan to retali . russia say it ha made clear to israel that iran doe not want escal , while foreign minist from the g7 group of the world ' s largest industri nation said they would work toward restor calm . the recent flare up in hostil follow an air strike on iran ' s consul build in syria on 1 april , which kill two top gener . it is wide believ israel wa behind it . the most senior of the two , brig gen mohammad reza zahedi , wa reportedli in charg of iranian militari oper in syria and lebanon , where pro - iranian forc have launch attack on israel . it also come as israel continu to fight hama in gaza and hezbollah along the border with lebanon , both of which are back by iran . what do you want to understand better about the isra missil strike on iran ? our expert will be answer your question . in some case your question will be publish , display your name , age and locat as you provid it , unless you state otherwis . your contact detail will never be publish . pleas ensur you have read our term & condit and privaci polici .