the un gener assembl ha enhanc palestin ' s right within the organis and urg it be accept as a member follow heat debat . palestin ha had non - member observ state statu sinc 2012 , which allow some right short of a full member . membership can onli be decid upon by the un secur council . friday ' s vote can be seen as a gestur of support for the palestinian by the full un bodi , despit strident isra opposit . palestinian presid mahmoud abba welcom the resolut , say it support palestinian effort for anoth vote on the issu by the secur council . `` palestin will continu it endeavour to obtain full membership in the un , '' he said in a statement . israel ' s ambassador to the un , gilad erdan , said the bodi had welcom a `` terror state `` into it rank . address the assembl erdan shred a copi of the un charter - accus member of have metaphor done just that by pass the resolut by 143 vote to 9 . `` you are shred the un charter with your own hand , '' he said . `` ye , ye , that ' s what you ' re do . shred the un charter . shame on you . '' nation vote against the resolut were the us , argentina , the czech republ , hungari , israel , micronesia , nauru , palau and papua new guinea . the uk wa one of 25 nation to abstain . palestinian envoy riyad mansour told the gener assembl befor the vote that a `` ye `` vote wa `` a vote for palestinian exist , it is not against ani state . it is an invest in peac `` . `` we want peac , we want freedom , '' mr mansour told member . the vote come as sever european countri reportedli plan to recognis a palestinian state . eu foreign polici chief josep borrel told spanish broadcast rtve on thursday that spain would do so on 21 may . he ha previous said ireland , slovenia and malta would also take the step , without confirm the date . friday ' s un resolut confer addit right on palestin at the world bodi , allow it to take part fulli in debat , propos agenda item and have it repres elect to committe . it will still not , howev , have the right to cast a vote - someth the gener assembl doe not have the power to grant and would have to be back by the secur council . the issu of palestinian statehood ha vex the intern commun for decad . in 1988 , the palestin liber organis ( plo ) , the main repres of the palestinian , first declar the establish of the state of palestin . accord to the reuter news agenc , palestinian statehood ha been recognis by 139 out of 193 un member state - although thi is larg seen as symbol . in practic , the palestinian have limit self - govern through the palestinian author ( pa ) in part of the isra - occupi west bank . the pa lost control of the gaza strip to hama in 2007 . the un consid both territori as occupi by israel and compris a singl polit entiti . israel doe not recognis palestinian statehood and the current isra govern oppos the creation of a palestinian state in the west bank and gaza . it argu such a state would be a threat to israel ' s exist . the us endors the creation of an independ palestinian state alongsid israel - the so - call two state solut to the israel - palestinian conflict - but say such a state should onli come through direct negoti between the two side . last month , the us use it veto as one of the five perman member of the secur council to block a wide back algerian resolut seek palestin ' s admitt as a state , call it `` prematur `` . secur council resolut are legal bind , wherea gener assembl resolut are not .