the us say it airdrop 36 , 000 meal into northern gaza on tuesday in co - ordin with jordan - the second such joint mission in recent day . it came a day after the world health organ said children were die of starvat in the north , where an estim 300 , 000 palestinian are live with littl food or clean water . but the strategi ha spark consider discuss , with humanitarian organis say it can not meet the soar need . it is also a symbol of the failur of the aid effort on the ground . aid lorri have been enter the south of gaza through the egyptian - control rafah cross and the isra - control kerem shalom cross dure the war between israel and hama . but the north , which wa the focu of the first phase of the isra ground offens , ha been larg cut off from assist in recent month . on 20 februari , the world food programm ( wfp ) said it wa suspend food deliveri to northern gaza becaus it first aid convoy in three week had endur `` complet chao and violenc due to the collaps of civil order `` , includ violent loot . last thursday , more than 100 palestinian were kill as crowd rush to reach an aid convoy oper by privat contractor that wa be escort by isra forc west of gaza citi . palestinian health offici said dozen were kill when isra forc open fire . israel ' s militari said most die from either be trampl on or run over by the aid lorri . it said soldier near the aid convoy had fire toward peopl who approach them and who they consid a threat . but on tuesday the wfp said it attempt to reach northern gaza with food suppli today , but wa `` turn back `` by the israel defens forc ( idf ) . the idf are yet to comment . israel ' s militari launch an air and ground campaign in gaza after hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob , in which around 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 30 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say . more than 20 airdrop of aid into gaza have taken place over the past few week in co - ordin with the isra militari , with franc , the unit arab emir and egypt conduct them alongsid the us and jordan . one gaza resid , ismail mokbel , told bbc arab ' s gaza lifelin radio - an emerg radio servic for the territori set up in respons to the conflict - that packag of aid drop on friday consist of some legum and a few women ' s health essenti . anoth man , abu youssef , said he wa not abl to get some aid that wa drop near al - shifa hospit in gaza citi . `` suddenli , when we were look up into the sky , we saw aid parachut . so we remain in the place [ where we were ] until the aid land about 500 metr away from us . there were mani peopl , but the aid wa littl , and so we could not get anyth . '' mr mokbel said not enough aid wa drop to meet the basic need of the larg number of peopl in the area . `` thousand of citizen saw the aid fall on them ... and when hundr or thousand wait in such area , onli around 10 to 20 peopl get thing , while the other go back with noth . unfortun , thi method of drop through air is not the most suitabl way to transport aid to the north district of gaza , '' he ad . `` gaza need a land and water pathway to deliv the aid instead of [ do it in ] such a manner , which doesn ' t meet the need of all citizen . '' initi employ dure world war two to suppli isol troop on the ground , airdrop have evolv into a valuabl tool for deliv humanitarian aid , with the un first use them in 1973 . howev , they are consid a `` last resort `` , onli to be use `` when more effect option fail `` , as the wfp said in a 2021 report . south sudan is the last place where the wfp carri out airdrop . `` airdrop are expens , haphazard and usual lead to the wrong peopl get the aid , '' jan egeland , the secretari gener of the norwegian refuge council and a former un aid chief , told the bbc after return from a recent three - day visit to gaza . airdrop are seven time more expens compar to ground - deliv aid due to cost relat to aircraft , fuel and personnel , say the wfp . in addit to that , onli rel small quantiti can be deliv with each flight , in comparison to what a convoy of lorri can bring in , and signific ground co - ordin is requir within the deliveri zone , say the wfp . the intern committe of the red cross also stress the import of control distribut to prevent peopl from risk their live by consum inappropri or unsaf item . `` deliv sudden and unsupervis type of food to peopl who are malnourish or even starv can pose seriou risk to life . these risk need to be weigh against deliv noth by air , or the delay a ground distribut may incur , '' the organis warn in a 2016 report publish when aid wa be airdrop into syria dure the countri ' s civil war . airdrop can be carri out from differ altitud , rang from about 300m to 5 , 600m ( 985 - 18 , 370ft ) in conflict zone , and so ensur robust packag is crucial to make sure parcel can endur impact with the ground , the wfp add . accord to the agenc , drop zone should ideal be larg , open area no smaller than a footbal field , which is whi deliveri have often been aim at gaza ' s coastlin . howev , thi ha sometim result in aid fall into the sea or be carri by the wind into israel , accord to local account . gaza resid samir abo sabha told bbc arab ' s gaza lifelin radio that he believ the us should do more and put pressur on it alli israel for a ceasefir . `` as a citizen of gaza , thi stuff is of no use , '' he said . `` what we want [ is ] america to pressur israel into a ceasefir and to stop give israel weapon and missil . '' some aid worker have echo thi sentiment . last week , scott paul of oxfam america wrote on x , formerli twitter : `` instead of indiscrimin airdrop in gaza , the us should cut the flow of weapon to israel that are use in indiscrimin attack , push for an immedi ceasefir and the releas of hostag , and insist that israel uphold it duti to provid humanitarian aid , access , and other basic servic . '' melani ward of medic aid for palestinian said the us , uk and other should `` ensur that israel immedi open all cross into gaza for aid and aid worker to assist those in need `` . but as the crisi deepen , other argu that food must be deliv by ani mean necessari . `` we need to bring food into gaza ani way we can . we should be bring it by the sea , '' josé andré , a chef and founder of world central kitchen , which ha been send food to gaza , told abc news . `` i don ' t think we need to be criticis that jordan , america are do airdrop . if anyth , we should be applaud ani initi that bring food into gaza . '' presid biden ha vow that the us will `` redoubl our effort to open a maritim corridor , and expand deliveri by land `` - but those effort have not yet translat into realiti on the ground . israel defens forc spokesman rear admir daniel hagari said on sunday that they were facilit aid convoy and airdrop to northern gaza `` becaus we want humanitarian aid to reach gazan civilian in need `` . `` we will continu expand our humanitarian effort to the civilian popul in gaza while we fulfil our goal of free our hostag from hama and free gaza from hama , '' he ad . edit by alexandra fouché