scotland move top of their group after overcom israel in a women ' s euro 2025 qualifi that wa play behind close door and delay by a protest at hampden park . the scottish fa decid not to allow spectat in to the nation stadium becaus of secur concern . hundr of protest gather outsid the stadium befor the game over israel ' s militari oper in gaza while an individu breach secur and chain themself to a goalpost which delay kick - off by 30 minut . when the game got under way , scotland were domin in one of their finest first - half perform under manag pedro martinez losa , who ha been link with the vacanc at lyon . the spaniard celebr the first of clair emslieâ €™ s two goal with a fist pump befor applaud kirsti hansonâ €™ s effort in an impress open 45 minut from hi side . emsli ' s second made the point safe befor the break but it wa a more subdu second half until martha thoma score her 15th intern goal with a well - taken penalti to secur back - to - back home win for scotland . howev , the home side were deni a clean sheet , with talia sommer superbl score a late consol for the visitor . scotland have now taken seven point from their open three game and move top of group two on goal differ , with serbia second after beat slovakia 2 - 1 . the player were in the tunnel and prepar to enter the pitch when the pre - match incid took place . after 20 minut of wait while the protest wa remov and a quick second warm - up , the scot start in style . hanson wa influenti down the left throughout the night , and clip the crossbar earli on in a sign of what wa to come . it wa fellow winger emsli , though , who got the crucial connect for the well - earn first goal follow a fantast pick - out by thoma . for all their domin play , the scot nearli fell foul of a shock equalis as sophi howardâ €™ s slip allow sommer in for a one - on - one with lee gibson . the goalkeep stood strong to deni her though , and howard made up for her error with a vital block second later . scotland took heed of the warn and counter in clinic fashion to score their second , hanson have two effort at it but her determin paid dividend . she grab the assist in the goal of the night , too . in one of the neatest goal from martinez losaâ €™ s side in recent memori , emsli finish a wonder free - flow move involv lisa evan and thoma . the quieter second half ' s highlight wa the penalti , as cornetâ €™ s cute work led to her be drag to the deck and a spot - kick award . while emsli would have had the opportun from the spot for a first intern hat - trick , tottenhamâ €™ s thoma tuck away a deserv goal after bounc one off the woodwork earlier . scotland look pois to walk away with a win and clean sheet , but while gibson remark deni her former citi team - mate vital kat , she could do noth about keep out sommer ' s sensat finish . one of the biggest frustrat dure martinez losa ' s reign ha been the lack of potenc up top . jane ross , who celebr her 150th cap tonight , return earlier thi year from a 17 - month injuri lay - off and in her absenc no one quit step up to the plate to fill her jersey . with just seven goal in the previou 10 game there had been grow grumbl at scotland ' s lack of strikepow . one way to put that to bed is to score four , and particularli three in the manner scotland did at hampden . at the crux of their scintil first - half show were the return pair , thoma and hanson , both of whom got on the scoresheet . there are mani qualiti they boast to a level few do in the squad - awar , movement and strength are just a few . all of those prove key in the path to score four for the first time in over a year . in the absenc of carolin weir , scotland have lack creativ at time , but the wsl duo have taken it upon themselv to step up for their countri . scotland head coach pedro martinez losa : `` i want to prais the profession of the team . '' not onli the focu of the player but also the staff in challeng circumst . our main focu and inspir is for scotland to qualifi for the euro and we have to be at the top of the group , where we are now , we have to win game and that ' s what we remain focus on . '' the way we play in the first half wa excel . we creat a lot of opportun and i think that ' s someth we want to repeat . '' scotland meet israel again on tuesday ( 15 : 00 bst ) in the neutral venu of budapest , hungari . there will again be no fan in attend .