the israel defens forc ( idf ) ha finish build a new road which run across northern gaza from east to west , accord to satellit imag verifi by the bbc . the idf told the bbc they were attempt to gain an `` oper foothold `` , and facilit the movement of troop and equip . but some expert fear it will use as a barrier , prevent palestinian from return to their home in the north . other said it appear to be part of an isra plan to remain in gaza beyond the end of current hostil . in februari , prime minist benjamin netanyahu unveil a post - war vision in which israel would control secur in gaza indefinit . intern leader have previous warn israel against perman displac palestinian or reduc the size of gaza . it run across north gaza , with central and southern area lie below it . it start at gaza ' s border fenc with israel near the nahal oz kibbutz and finish near the coast . it also intersect with the salah al - din and al - rashid road , the two major arteri run through the territori . although there is a network of road which connect east and west , the new idf rout is the onli one which run uninterrupt across gaza . satellit imageri analysi by the bbc reveal that the idf ha built over 5km ( 3 mile ) of new road section to join up previous unconnect road . the initi section of the road in eastern gaza near the isra border wa establish between late last octob and earli novemb . but most of the new section were built dure februari and in earli march . the new rout is wider than a typic road in gaza , exclud salah al - din . imageri analysi also show that build along the rout , which appear to be warehous , were demolish from the end of decemb until late januari . thi includ one build sever stori high . the road span an area which previous had fewer build and wa less dens popul than other part of gaza . it also sit below a makeshift and wind rout which the idf had been use to move from east to west . an isra tv channel report on the rout in februari , say it wa code name `` highway 749 `` . a report from channel 14 travel along part of the rout with the isra militari . in the video , road construct vehicl and digger were seen prepar for the construct of new section of the rout . analyst at jane , a defenc intellig compani , said the type of unpav road surfac seen in the channel 14 footag , wa suitabl for track armour vehicl . the idf did not go into thi type of detail in it statement . `` as part of the ground oper , the idf use an oper rout of passag , '' it said . retir brig gen jacob nagel , former head of israel ' s nation secur council and a former secur advis to mr netanyahu , told bbc arab that the object of the new rout wa to provid fast access for secur forc when deal with fresh threat . `` it will help israel go in and out ... becaus israel is go to have total defenc , secur and respons for gaza , '' he told bbc arab . he describ it as `` a road that divid the northern part from the southern part `` . `` we don ' t want to wait until a threat is emerg , '' he ad . maj gen yaakov amidror , formerli of the idf , had a similar view . the primari purpos of the new road wa to `` facilit logist and militari control in the region `` , he said . justin crump , a former british armi offic who run sibyllin , a risk intellig compani , said the new rout wa signific . `` it certainli look like it ' s part of a longer - term strategi to have at least some form of secur intervent and control in the gaza strip , '' said mr crump . `` thi area cut off gaza citi from the south of the strip , make it an effect control line to monitor or limit movement , and ha rel open field of fire . '' khale elgindi , a senior fellow at the us - base middl east institut , also think the road is a long - term project . `` it appear that the isra militari will remain in gaza indefinit , '' he told the bbc . `` by divid gaza in half , israel will control not onli what goe in and out of gaza , but also movement within gaza , '' said the analyst . `` thi includ quit possibl prevent the 1 . 5 million displac palestinian in the south from return to their home in the north . '' addit report by paul cusiac , alex murray & erwan rivault