the isra militari ha releas the find of it investig into it attack on a convoy in gaza which kill seven aid worker . the isra defens forc ( idf ) say the vehicl were hit by missil after it drone oper mistakenli thought they were carri hama gunmen . the idf say it ha dismiss two senior militari offic and reprimand two other . sinc the attack on 1 april , bbc verifi ha been studi imag of it aftermath , share on social media , to tri to piec togeth what we know about the incid . the group of world central kitchen ( wck ) aid worker were travel in three car - two of them armour . they were part of a convoy deliv more than 100 tonn of food suppli from a recent construct pier to a warehous in deir al - balah in central gaza , accord to wck . it say their movement had been co - ordin with the idf in advanc but the investig ha found that thi inform had not been share with isra drone oper track the convoy . the idf say they had spot a gunman ride on the roof of a larg aid lorri , that wa be escort by the wck team . drone footag of thi wa shown to journalist at an idf brief on 4 april but ha not been releas . the idf say the convoy wa track to a warehous ( label ' a ' on the map ) where the aid lorri remain and four `` suv - type car `` emerg . it say one contain gunmen - also shown to journalist in drone footag - and head north but wa not target becaus it wa close to anoth aid facil ( label ' b ' ) . the three remain vehicl , belong to wck , head south . the investig say `` one of the command mistakenli assum that gunmen were insid the accompani vehicl and that these were hama terrorist `` . the drone oper , the idf say , had `` misidentifi `` one of the aid worker as a gunman - they thought he wa carri a gun when he enter one of the car but he wa hold a bag . the idf ha not shown thi footag . the car were then target . imag of the three badli damag vehicl emerg on social media and have been analys by bbc verifi to work out where they were struck . they were locat along a stretch of road and were 2 . 5km ( 1 . 5 mile ) apart , which suggest there wa more than one strike . the idf report confirm thi . it say the first vehicl wa struck at 2309 , the second at 2311 and the third at 2313 . the wck head jose andr say those in the convoy had tri to call the idf dure the attack . `` they were target system car by car . they attack the first car . they were abl to move in the second one . again thi one wa hit . they were abl to move in ( into ) the third one . '' `` it wa a direct hit . they tri to treat some of them and put them in anoth car in front . but they shell the car , '' said a local resid , who said he had wit the strike . bbc verifi pinpoint the locat of the strike by match visual clue in the photo of the vehicl with satellit imag of thi part of gaza . in one imag of a heavili damag toyota hilux , as well as the tree and fenc besid the vehicl , a lone palm tree stand in a wall enclosur with a distinct pattern of build surround it . use satellit imag , these featur have been match with a part of al - rashid road - which run along the coast in central gaza . a second vehicl wa pictur with a wck logo on it roof and a larg hole in it . a pylon , a section of woodland , a low wall and two distinct roof can be seen in the background . bbc verifi match the scene to about 800m south of the first vehicl . a third damag vehicl wa photograph in an area of open ground to the south , about 100m off the road . the wck say thi third car wa a `` soft - skin vehicl `` - mean not armour . it wa about 1 . 6km south of the second vehicl and 2 . 5km of the first . the idf say drone - fire missil were use in the attack . thi confirm the initi analysi from militari expert who we sent imag of the vehicl to on 2 april . chri cobb - smith , a former british armi offic and ex - un weapon inspector , told us the attack wa probabl the result of drone - launch spike missil . spike missil are a type of power weapon , usual launch against tank and other armour vehicl . justin crump , a former british armi offic who run sibyllin - a risk intellig compani - agre that the attack `` wa like drone - launch and target `` . the idf said that the wck logo - on top of one of the vehicl - wa not visibl at night to the drone oper . footag shown at the idf brief appear to confirm thi , accord to a bbc journalist who attend it . `` the natur of the logo and mark visibl on the vehicl , while colour and suitabl for daytim recognit , would appear to stand out much less obvious at night depend on the exact natur of the system use `` , mr crump told us . wck had alreadi share the coordin and journey detail of the aid convoy with the isra militari . the seven aid worker kill were name by wck as : imag of the aid worker ' bodi were first post on social media just befor 22 : 30 bst on 1 april . graphic video show the bodi of five individu . two more bodi were recov from deir al - balah later on , the palestin red crescent societi said on x . wck logo were visibl on bulletproof vest on at least three of the deceas . video also show colleagu from wck identifi the bodi . `` these are the peopl who brought the aid from the sea , '' one said , befor cri out as he recognis a palestinian aid worker kill . addit report by merlyn thoma , osob elmi and joshua cheetham . thi articl , origin publish on 2 april , ha been updat to reflect the find of the idf investig . we have ask the idf to releas it drone footag of the incid . what do you want bbc verifi to investig ?