palestinian who have return to jabalia refuge camp in northern gaza in recent day have express shock at the level of destruct follow a three - week isra militari oper there against hama and other palestinian arm group . one displac man who wa among the more than 60 , 000 peopl who fled the intens battl and bombard in the camp and it surround area last month said he had wit “ horrifi scene ” . “ even the sand beneath our feet is scorch ; it ' s unbear to walk on , ” he told bbc arab . “ the street are strewn with rubbl and demolish build . word fail to describ the devast . ” the man - who ask not to be name - also said he had seen injur and dead peopl “ lie on the ground ” and that essenti servic and good were not avail . “ there is no electr or water . there are no clinic or medicin , ” he ad . “ well have been destroy , shop and supermarket demolish , and there is a shortag of food . ” the town of jabalia and it decad - old urban refuge camp - the largest in gaza , with more than 110 , 000 regist resid - wit week of devast bombard and fight after the start of the war between israel and hama in octob . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said troop had secur control over the camp at the end of decemb after a seri of oper in which it said “ mani terrorist ” were kill . it subsequ scale down combat oper across northern gaza , declar that hama ’ s local battalion had been dismantl . but that left a power vacuum in which the group wa abl to rebuild . on 12 may , the idf said troop were go back into jabalia for an oper `` base on intellig inform regard attempt by hama to reassembl it terrorist infrastructur and oper in the area `` . over the next three week , battl rage as tank and troop advanc into the refuge camp under the cover of intens air and artilleri strike . one militari offici describ the fight as `` perhap the fiercest `` they had seen over the past seven month . on friday , the idf announc that troop had complet their mission , have “ elimin hundr of terrorist in intens combat and close - quarter encount ” and destroy dozen of “ terrorist infrastructur and combat compound ” . the troop also locat and destroy more than 10km ( six mile ) of an underground tunnel network and retriev the bodi of seven isra taken hostag by hama in octob , it said . displac famili were soon pictur walk back to the camp along street line by destroy build , carri what remain of their belong . a spokesman for gaza ’ s hama - run civil defenc forc , mahmoud bassal , said on friday that it rescu team had found dozen of bodi across jabalia camp - mostli women and children - includ 30 member of one famili . on sunday , the director of the kamal adwan hospit in the neighbour town of beit lahia , dr husam abu safiyeh , told al arabi tv that 120 bodi had been recov from jabalia and the surround area , and that mani more were believ to be buri under rubbl . the ident of the dead were not yet clear . but the idf ’ s arab spokesman , lt col avichay adrae , play down such report on friday , insist on x that they were member of hama and other arm group . mr bassal also said isra forc had destroy most of the home in the camp , as well as it central market and almost all of it infrastructur . he ad that the fifth floor of al - awda hospit in jabalia had been destroy along with the main electr gener at kamal adwan . the head of the municip emerg committe for north gaza , naji sarhan , declar jabalia town , jabalia camp , beit lahia and nearbi beit hanoun as “ disast zone ” on sunday , estim that 50 , 000 hous unit had been destroy there , accord to a un situat report . he appeal to the intern commun for immedi shelter assist and support in repair water well and other critic infrastructur . the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa , meanwhil said it had receiv “ horrif report ” from jabalia camp , where it provid servic . they includ displac peopl , includ children , reportedli be kill and injur while shelter in an unrwa - run school that wa besieg by isra tank , accord to a post on x , formerli twitter . there were also report of unrwa offic be destroy by air strike and bulldoz by isra forc , it ad . unrwa chief philipp lazzarini said thousand of peopl from the camp now had “ no choic but to live amid the rubbl and in destroy unrwa facil ” . one of the returne told bbc arab ’ s gaza lifelin programm that he and hi seven - year - old son had seen “ the bodi of martyr scatter everywher in the street ” on saturday . “ east jabalia ha been subject to an unpreced devast , ” diab abu salama said . “ all the store in jabalia have been destroy , as well as the home surround them . ” “ there is no doubt that the goal of the occup [ israel ] in displac peopl and destroy their home and shop is to forc them to leav thi countri , ” he claim , befor ad : “ but we will remain steadfast . ” musa zaqzouq , meanwhil , describ how he found onli rubbl where hi home had stood three week ago . “ the scene wa veri horribl , ” he said . “ the famili home wa complet destroy , and so wa the neighbourhood in which i live . ” “ water pipe were destroy ... sewag channel were damag , ” he ad . “ there is no longer one suitabl place for habit . ” a woman , who ask not to be name , said the level of devast wa such that “ we walk in the street as if we are see them for the first time ” . she also urg the intern commun to take action to help palestinian in jabalia and elsewher in gaza . “ what is the reason for all thi mass destruct ? ” she ask . “ pleas , hurri and come to us to see how much we are torment . ” israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 251 other were taken hostag . at least 36 , 470 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the hama - run health ministri .