as deadli isra bombard and acut food shortag continu , and a threaten isra militari oper in southern gaza loom , more and more palestinian are seek a way out - if they can find the money for it . thi uncertain exit requir peopl to pay thousand of dollar and navig scammer and misinform to get their name onto a list of peopl approv to leav via the rafah cross to egypt . the cross is close to the vast major of peopl under an egyptian - isra blockad against hama . onli some foreign passport holder and their depend have been abl to leav , as well as some serious wound and sick peopl and those accompani them . howev , a parallel system exist wherebi gazan pay egyptian broker to get on a list of peopl who can leav . depend on who you talk to , price rang from $ 6 , 000 ( £ 4 , 800 ) per person to over $ 12 , 000 - exorbit sum for most of gaza ' s popul . yet increas number of peopl are tri to rais the money to flee , with the help of friend and famili in the us and europ . among them are the hammad , current displac along with more than a million other in rafah next to the egyptian border . their 15 - year - old son ibrahim ha down ' s syndrom . for him , the isra bombard is particularli traumat . video post by the famili show him shake in distress after each thunder boom from nearbi airstrik . hi father abe alqad say they have had to resuscit him three time after he stop breath due to sever panic attack . he say ibrahim ha been beg for the famili to leav , say `` pleas father , i can not continu `` . `` for the last five month , all you hear are sound of bomb , heavi bomb , '' mr hammad ad . `` you just sit home and pray you will not be next . '' their onlin fundrais page , like most , is be manag outsid gaza , in their case by anoth son amjad , who live in europ . it is one fundrais among thousand , appeal for donor to assist gazan to `` surviv `` , `` evacu `` and `` escap genocid `` . some campaign have been success , rais over $ 100 , 000 . howev , the bbc spoke to sever of these account holder who , even after achiev their fundrais goal , said their desper attempt to help love one were mire in chao and confus . in the word of one fundrais , a new jersey woman who ask to remain anonym to avoid risk the chanc of hinder her cousin ' s way out : `` everi day is a toss - up . '' the first challeng is determin the cost to leav . fundrais account holder who spoke to the bbc said the most common price wa $ 6 , 000 per person , allow peopl to leav within 72 hour . some peopl fundrais toward the goal of $ 12 , 000 per person , the price said to get an exit within 24 hour . onc enough money is rais , the next challeng becom get ten of thousand of dollar into gaza . there are few wire servic like western union left in the devast territori , and the line to enter is day - long . some peopl have use cryptocurr exchang . other have reli on paypal account regist elsewher , as the firm doesn ' t provid servic to peopl in gaza or the occupi west bank . most peopl , howev , wire the money to someon outsid of gaza - a rel or friend in europ - who then withdraw the cash , and travel to egypt to wait in a separ day - long line at the offic of hala travel in cairo , an agenc that facilit travel between egypt and gaza . footag from outsid the hala offic show crowd throng the street . hala ha not respond to request for comment from the bbc . howev , the bbc ha obtain a copi of a receipt from hala travel date 13 februari for $ 6 , 000 . the person ' s name on that receipt also appear with four other on a separ ticket indic they have been clear for entri into egypt . visa and onward travel to cairo are includ . the final step is to check for approv onlin . place like the gaza ministri of foreign affair facebook account publish daili list of up to 250 approv name . all have paid thousand to get out , accord to the person who provid the receipt , who ask to remain anonym . peopl whose name appear on the offici list must leav the same day . howev , due to spotti wifi servic and roll blackout , some peopl miss their window to exit and have to repeat the entir process , includ pay again , thi person say . the man who provid the hala receipt told the bbc that the name of those on the offici list to enter egypt onli appear after they ' ve been vet by egyptian intellig . `` is thi new ? no . it ' s not realli new , but the price befor the war wa $ 600 . now it ' s 10 time higher , '' he say . `` gaza is not onli under bombard , but peopl are profit from their suffer . '' hama , the palestinian group which wa govern gaza and launch the attack target civilian in southern israel that trigger the current war , ha also accus `` compani , individu and peopl with influenc `` of exploit gazan by `` make them pay exorbit amount to coordin their travel `` . egypt ' s foreign minist sameh shoukri ha told sky news that hi countri is investig . we will take whatev measur that we need so as to restrict it and elimin it immedi , '' he said , without give further detail . in januari , egypt ' s state inform servic head diaa rashwan `` categor deni the alleg relat to the collect of addit fee from travel from gaza , as well as claim that an unoffici entiti collect fee for the passag to egyptian land `` . egypt wa tri to help gaza ' s palestinian , he ad , and did not want to impos extra burden on them . much of the crowdfund is be led by friend and rel who live abroad and have look on helplessli as isra bombard kill whole famili and reduc neighbourhood to rubbl . `` it ' s heartbreak to watch , '' say shahd , a woman in the us state of virginia who ask onli to go by her first name . she help organis a campaign for her friend , two brother , whom she met on tiktok in 2021 . her own rel in gaza were kill in octob , she say . shahd felt compel to aid her friend after wit their narrow escap from death - on one occas be hit by fli masonri as a nearbi build explod . sinc then , they have been struggl to surviv amid gaza ' s deepen humanitarian crisi and , they say , navig the gang rule that ha replac social cohes . `` there ' s moment where [ the brother ] are like , ' we realli can ' t do thi anymor . it might be better if we were kill ' , '' shahd say . `` they ' re basic like famili to me at thi point . if anyth were to happen to them , i ' d probabl lose it . '' the fundrais page for shahd ' s friend and some of their famili ha reach over $ 105 , 000 . but send it to them ha been difficult . their fundrais account wa frozen for sever day in februari , block her from transfer the money . and the brother ' paypal account were lock for week without explan . multipl user rais money to aid peopl in gaza have complain about have their account frozen . `` peopl are liter tri to escap death , '' one new jersey woman told the bbc . `` it ' s just mind - blow that everi singl corner we turn there ' s a new obstacl . '' have rais $ 36 , 000 , she say she miss a window to get her cousin and hi famili on the list while the compani froze her account for sever day in earli februari and ask for more inform . she said the request , the first she ' s had in a decad of use the platform , felt `` discriminatori `` . nearli everi person told the bbc they had the same experi with delay , and multipl said they had to resort to legal threat befor get a respons . gofundm , one of the platform peopl are use to rais money , told the bbc it prioriti wa `` protect the generos of donor `` . `` gofundm ha alreadi help deliv ten of million of dollar to individu and organ support those in both israel and gaza , and we will continu to do so as quickli , secur , and safe as possibl , '' spokesman jalen drummond said . `` ani suggest of discrimin is wholli without merit , baseless , and contrari to the valu that guid our platform . '' jordan , from brooklyn , new york , ha hit hi fundrais target of $ 50 , 000 and plan to wire it directli to hi friend ' s bank in gaza . hi friend ' s famili must leav to access life - save medicin . more than 1 . 5 million peopl are in rafah , most of whom have fled there to escap the fight , but onli a slim minor have connect to peopl abroad who can help , a realiti jordan describ as `` realli dark `` . ahmad , who live in gaza but ha a friend in canada fundrais for him , say he ha to leav becaus of chronic knee inflamm , the medic for which is no longer avail in gaza . `` me and anyon in gaza may die in ani second , '' he said from the rooftop of a build in rafah , isra drone buzz in the background . earlier that day , on 12 februari , he sent the bbc a pictur of two girl who he said die overnight in a nearbi air strike . `` i ' m pretti much aliv , '' he said in the same whatsapp messag . `` veri depress bro . '' the 24 - year - old ha been fundrais for week but still hasn ' t found a way out of gaza . first , hi fundrais account wa frozen . as a result , he had to borrow thousand of dollar from hi parent - who are resign to stay in the war - zone - to pay some middlemen whom he trust to facilit get him on the exit list . hi plan fail after give them $ 5 , 000 , and he had to fork out anoth $ 3 , 000 to resolv the issu . he promis hi parent he would pay them back onc he got to cairo and could access the money rais by crowdfund . ahmad is still wait . on thursday , reach by text messag , he said he wa in deep pain and feel veri anxiou . but he felt hope he wa on the verg of final get out of gaza . it ' s happen , he said , `` anytim soon `` .