us presid joe biden ha said he hope to see a deal for a ceasefir in the israel - gaza war in time for the start of ramadan . the muslim holi month , dure which member of the faith fast from dawn to sunset , will begin on 10 or 11 march . ask whether he expect a deal by then , mr biden said : `` i ' m hope so . we ' re still work real hard on it . '' it come amid tens ceasefir negoti and as pressur build on mr biden to help curtail the conflict . a propos deal would see a 40 - day paus in all militari oper from the start of ramadan as well as an increas flow of aid into gaza , a sourc close to the talk told reuter news agenc . it would also reportedli includ an agreement for the releas of palestinian prison in exchang for isra hostag at a ratio of 10 to one . the exact start of ramadan is mark by the first sight of the crescent moon , so can vari from place to place . call for action to allevi the humanitarian crisi in gaza intensifi on thursday after more than 100 peopl were kill as crowd rush around aid lorri deliv food . hama , which govern gaza , accus israel of fire at civilian , but israel said most had die in a stamped after it fire warn shot . follow the incid , presid biden announc plan to airdrop aid into gaza , say : `` innoc peopl got caught in a terribl war , unabl to feed their famili . and you saw the respons when they tri to get aid . `` but we need to do more , and the unit state will do more . '' around a quarter of the popul of gaza is current at risk of famin , accord to un figur , but the plan air drop have been criticis by aid group as costli and insuffici . `` oxfam doe not support us airdrop to gaza , which would mostli serv to reliev the guilti conscienc of senior us offici whose polici are contribut to the ongo atroc and risk of famin in gaza , '' the chariti group said on friday . `` while palestinian in gaza have been push to the absolut brink , drop a paltri , symbol amount of aid into gaza with no plan for it safe distribut would not help and be deepli degrad to palestinian , '' oxfam said , ad that the us should instead work to `` cut the flow of weapon to israel `` . un agenc chief philipp lazzarini said the drop were `` a last - resort , extraordinarili expens way of provid assist `` and not the answer to problem in gaza . `` the real answer is : open the cross and bring convoy and medic assist into the gaza strip , '' he ad . white hous nation secur council spokesman john kirbi said that the us would continu to work toward bring aid to gaza by land and sea as well . on thursday , jordanian air forc pilot drop 33 tonn of medic suppli and food into gaza . accord to the washington post , jordanian plane have also drop aid provid by the us and the uk , while plane from franc , egypt and the unit arab emir have particip in similar oper . the isra militari launch a larg - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hama - which is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the uk and other - after the group ' s gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel on 7 octob and took 253 back to gaza as hostag .