sam attar reckon he left part of hi soul in gaza . it wa the part of him that saw suffer and could not turn away . the part which now can not forget . you can be on the shore of lake michigan on an overcast spring day , the wind whip up wave on the green water . and at the veri same time you can be back there , in the heat and the die . it ' s been three week sinc he came home to chicago but it might as well have been yesterday . the face of that other world are with him : jenna , the traumatis littl girl wast away , spectral pale on a hospit bed , while her mother show sam a phone video of the child ' s last birthday . happi day befor the disast . warn : thi articl contain detail and imag some reader may find disturb . anoth mother whose 10 - year - old son had just die . `` the mom just told me with just a blank numb stare on her face that he had just die five minut prior . the staff had been tri to cover up hi bodi with blanket but she just refus to let them . she want to spend more time with him . she wa griev , she wa sob , and stay that way for about a good 20 minut , she just didn ' t want to leav hi side . '' then there wa the man in hi 50 , forgotten in a room , have had both leg amput . `` he had lost hi kid , hi grandkid , hi home , '' sam recal , `` and he ' s alon in the corner of thi dark hospit , maggot go out of hi wound and he wa scream : ' the worm are eat me aliv pleas help me . ' that wa just one just one out of … i don ' t know , i just i stop count . but those are the peopl i still think of becaus they ' re still there . '' sam is a sensit , thought man in hi 40 , the son of two doctor , who wa born and rais in chicago and who work as a surgeon at northwestern hospit in the citi . while in gaza he kept video diari and film hi experi . for two week in march and april - on behalf of the ngo palestinian american bridg - he work in gaza hospit that were desper short of everyth except badli - wound patient . on the day he enter gaza thi time around he wa immedi confront with the hunger crisi . `` we were just swarm by peopl bang on the car , some peopl tri to jump on the car . the driver … they just got it . they don ' t stop becaus if they stop then peopl jump on the car . they ' re not tri to harm us . they ' re just beg for food . they ' re starv . '' sam recount hi experi calmli , as you might expect of a man train to put patient at eas . everi day there wa the relentless pressur of carri out triag , decid who could be save , who wa beyond hope . patient lie on hospit floor surround by blood and discard bandag , the air fill with the cri of pain and of griev rel . there is no eras such horror . even if you are a highli train doctor with past experi of war zone like ukrain , syria and iraq . `` i still think of all the patient i took care of , '' he say , `` all the doctor that are still there . there ' s a littl bit of guilt and shame at leav becaus there ' s so much that need to be done . the need are overwhelm . and you walk away from peopl that are still there and still suffer . '' the last trip - hi third into gaza sinc the war began - saw him join the first team of intern medic to be embed in a hospit in northern gaza where malnutrit is at it most acut . the mission wa organis by the world health organis ( who ) which ha warn of loom famin . some 30 % of children below the age of two are report to be acut malnourish , and 70 % of the popul in northern gaza is face what the un call `` catastroph hunger . '' last month the un human right chief , volker turk , accus israel of a potenti war crime becaus of the food crisi in gaza . `` the extent of israel ' s continu restrict on entri of aid into gaza , togeth with the manner in which it continu to conduct hostil , may amount to the use of starvat as a method of war , '' he said . israel deni thi and ha blame the un and aid agenc for ani slow or inadequ deliveri of aid . the isra govern said un calcul on hunger were base on `` multipl factual and methodolog flaw , some of them seriou . '' the govern ha said that it had track media report that food market in gaza , includ the north , had plenti suppli . `` we outright reject ani alleg accord to which israel is purpos starv the civilian popul in gaza , '' said a statement from cogat - coordin of govern activ in the territori . sam attar rememb the 32 - year - old woman admit suffer from sever malnutrit , with her son , and her mother and father in the room with her . she underw cpr - attempt to resuscit the heart - but could not be save . `` i had to call it , '' sam say . the young mother lay on a bench , her left arm dangl toward the floor , eye gaze upward in the moment of death . across the room a nurs comfort her cri mother . there wa the littl girl , jenna ayyad , age seven , `` just skeleton and bone `` whose mother hope to get to the south where better medic facil were avail . jenna wa traumatis by the war and look to be extrem malnourish . she suffer from cystic fibrosi , which make digest more difficult . her condit ha been exacerb by the condit of the war and she is also suffer from trauma . in footag taken by a bbc cameraman jenna seem lost and now onli speak to her mother . `` what can i do ? she can ' t be treat , '' said nisma ayyad . `` her mental state is veri difficult . she doesn ' t talk at all whenev anyon talk to her . her situat is bad , and as a mom , i can ' t do anyth . '' dr attar said that as hi team pack up to return to southern gaza , jenna ' s mother approach him . `` jenna ' s mom came to me and wa say , ' i thought we were come with you … what ' s happen ? whi are you go and we ' re stay ? '' sam had to explain that the convoy south wa onli approv for the deliveri of fuel and food and not for carri patient . but befor leav sam and hi colleagu fill in the necessari paper to have jenna transfer . it would take day but they would make sure the paperwork reach the right offic . when sam went to speak with jenna ' s mother , other mum notic . `` the problem is it ' s open , share room , [ with ] mayb 10 patient in one room . so when all the other mom saw me talk to her , they all swarm me . '' jenna wa transfer and is now be treat at the intern medic corp hospit near rafah . accord to un estim last month the major of those kill in the war have been women and children : 13 , 000 children , 9 , 000 women . the war is now in it seventh month . negoti for a ceasefir and the releas of hostag are stall . everi day and night the wound and the malnourish arriv at the few function hospit that are left . the who say that onli 10 of gaza ' s 36 hospit are still function . travel in gaza can be veri danger for aid worker . wit the death of seven aid worker , includ three briton , when the isra militari attack their convoy with missil strike on 1 april . sam describ queu for hour at isra checkpoint . `` we often wait one to four hour depend on how long it take for the isra to approv the passag becaus they are conduct militari oper . '' the us doctor want to see a concert push to get more aid into the north . `` the north just need more access , it need more food , more fuel , more water , the road need to be open … and there are so mani patient that need to be evacu from the north to the south and the problem is the south is also busi . i mean , the hospit here are explod . '' he will go back . soon he hope . there are bond of friendship which call out to him . the paramed nabil who sam saw everi day , bring in the wound for treatment , until he himself becam a victim who had to be pull from the rubbl by hi colleagu . he is aliv but will not be abl to leav gaza . the doctor whose daughter wa kill but who found the generos to comfort a mother whose toddler son wa suffer from a brain injuri caus by bomb shrapnel . and there are the patient and their famili who see in the doctor , nurs and paramed not just the possibl of practic help but the steadi light of human decenc in a place of terror and degrad . these are sam attar ' s peopl . all of them . with addit report by alic doyard , anni duncanson , haneen abdeen , nik millard