it is all over in second . the aircraft slow , lift it nose and 12 , perfectli wrap pallet of humanitarian assist slide off the open ramp at the back . one minut ago , 10 tonn of food and water wa there , the next it wa float gentli by parachut in the southwesterli breez , touch down on the northern shore of gaza . it seem so simpl and straightforward . yet the deliveri of aid by air is anyth but simpl . and it is far from uncontroversi . thi wa the largest coalit airdrop of the war : 14 aircraft from nine nation deliv aid . the scale of the deliveri wa time to mark the end of ramadan . at a militari airbas to the east of amman , the capit of jordan , we watch as aircrew from the uk , the us , the netherland , germani , egypt , indonesia , uae and franc were brief by their jordanian counterpart . they need to know who is do what and where , the airspac over gaza is small . each countri ha it own drop zone , it own way of deliv aid . the whole oper is organis by the jordanian but everyth ha to be sign off by the isra . if the idf say no , then the plane do not take off . the turk were plan to join the coalit today but were veto at the last minut . the aid is stack in vast open hangar : pile of flour , sugar , rice , bean , puls , oil , and water . the uk ha it own corner where british servicemen and women - both from the raf and the 47 air despatch squadron of the royal logist corp - care pack their own pallet . everyth is care weigh - each bundl can not be too light or too heavi . everyth is pack deliber to avoid damag on impact . rope and strap are measur precis into place . few gift have been so care wrap . the whole thing sit atop a thick slab of plywood . fork - lift truck load the pallet on to a400m , one of the raf ' s biggest transport plane - the successor to the much - miss hercul c130 . each contain slide along a roll track on the deck of the plane . repeat check are made to ensur they will not jam . we take off and 40 minut later we are over the drop zone . and here is the next complic . the raf normal drop aid as low as 400ft , but the isra have stipul they must do so no lower than 2 , 000ft . that mean the parachut have a long time to get blown off cours by the wind . that is whi some airdrop in recent week have land in the sea . on our flight the pilot warn us they would drop the contain over the sea , but the southwesterli breez would drift them back inshor . which is exactli what happen . job done and we return home . so none of thi easi . the potenti for error is huge . it is also not a veri good way of deliv aid . the raf flight wa carri about 10 tonn of aid . that is less than a singl truck can carri across a border on the ground . so there is huge effort and expens , but margin impact . the british militari know thi . but squadron leader luci playl , the detach command in amman , said the cumul impact wa begin to tell , with around 1 , 500 tonn of aid deliv in the past month . `` thi is a sustain effort , '' she said . `` we ' ve been here for three week now , and we are continu deliv aid . `` the peopl of gaza are veri grate for the effort that we are go to . and we will keep deliv and deliv , until we can ' t give them ani more . '' some intern aid chariti say these flight are for show - to present an illus that some countri are contribut to the humanitarian effort . they say the airdrop are a symbol of the failur to get aid in by other mean , a distract from that effort . they argu , correctli , that the airdrop will simpli not meet the need on the ground . there are also risk . there is no way of organis the distribut on the ground . some gazan have been crush stamped for the pallet . other have drown tri to grab those land in the sea . some were even injur when contain drop on build . but the aircrew here in jordan insist they are make a differ , that they are fill a gap - not least while there is simpli not enough aid get through by road or sea . warrant offic adrian dibb said : `` it ' s not that much - but it is the effort that count , as in everi littl help . i am quit proud and privileg to be involv in thi sort of a mission . ''