the first uk - fund field hospit in gaza aim to be fulli function in day , with treatment for everyth from minor ill to bullet wound . it ha been set up by the aid organis uk - med , which deploy mani nh staff to intern emerg . the facil is base near rafah , where 1 . 5 million palestinian are cram in , have fled other part of gaza . `` the scale of the need is simpli stagger , '' uk - med ' s chief execut david wightwick told the bbc he wa speak over the nois of hammer and bang as construct continu in the desert sand of al mawasi . `` there are veri few servic of ani kind and the health servic have been erod to the extent that if you are sick , if you are ill , if you are wound , you are in a veri difficult situat . '' the field hospit - which wa despatch from manchest - will eventu cover the size of two footbal field , but get start hasn ' t been easi . when the uk - med truck were held up at the border , david and hi team began build with local timber from destroy build . `` it took a lot of negoti to get land , and it took a lot of negoti to get thing across the border , '' he said . `` it ' s been a challeng to find staff . it ha been a challeng to commun , none of the phone work , none of the internet work , and everyth somehow ha to be made to work in order to bring essenti urgent life - save servic to peopl . '' the team are alreadi see about 100 outpati a day at the field hospit and expect to doubl that soon . uk - med is alreadi run mobil clinic that go out into the commun in gaza . `` they have definit seen case of acut malnutrit in veri young children , '' david said . a surgic team from the aid group ha been work in the chao of the al aqsa hospit - the onli hospit function in the centr of the gaza strip . the ward and corridor are teem with patient , and with famili seek shelter , who have bed down on the floor . it ' s hard to get a trolley through , but when we visit , a 12 - year - old boy call ana wa on hi way to surgeri with a broken leg and wound to hi face . ana said that he wa play when hi neighbourhood wa bomb . he wa injur , and hi mother and six - month - old babi brother were kill . `` may god have merci on their soul , '' he said . uk - med orthopaed trauma surgeon saba papuashvili wa wait for ana in the oper room . `` he ' s a brave boy , '' he said . the surgeri went well . ana will recov but the team have seen some of the worst that war can do , accord to anaesthetist judith kendal . `` i have work in mani warzon over the past nine year , '' she told the bbc . `` i think what shock me about thi particular context is the number of children injur that we are see , and the extent of those injuri . they are life - chang injuri that a child will have to live with . '' gaza ' s hospit aren ' t just overwhelm . they are often under attack from isra forc . israel claim that hama use hospit as cover - a claim deni by health offici and medic staff . the uk - med team understand the danger , said mark shaw , from west yorkshir , who ha previous work in ukrain . `` we recognis the risk , and we accept the risk which is whi we are here in a humanitarian sens , '' he said . `` the worst injuri we are see are the amput , and blast injur , especi in young children . '' back in al mawasi , more truck have arriv , and anoth hangar ha been erect . if there is ground invas in rafah - as israel is threaten - the british field hospit could be crucial .