on the morn of 7 octob , amal alabadla wa heavili pregnant and snuggl up in bed with 18 - month - old noah when they were woken by a wall of sound . hama had launch it attack on israel , fire thousand of rocket over the border . isra jet fighter launch retaliatori attack soon after . in khan youni , amal had no idea what wa go on . she wa anxiou and terrifi and , eight month pregnant , she start bleed heavili . she had to get to hospit but her husband wa work outsid gaza , in the occupi west bank , and she wa alon . after a three - hour wait , the first taxi driver could onli take her part of the way . the street were full of peopl who didn ' t know what to do or where to go . all the time , she wa bleed . when amal , an architect , got to the hospit she wa sent for a caesarean section immedi . moham wa born into a world irrevoc chang . sinc then hi mother ha been in a daili battl to keep him and hi two - year - old brother aliv . as with 90 % of peopl in gaza , amal and her famili haven ' t had a healthi , balanc diet in month . the problem is particularli acut in the north , where 90 % of children and 95 % of pregnant and breastfeed women face sever food shortag . earlier thi month the world health organ said children were die of starvat in northern gaza after visit hospit there . but even in the south find babi formula is a struggl . in mani of the emerg the un respond to , the rate of breastfeed is high . but in gaza , as in the uk , onli about half of women breastfe beyond six week . `` as soon as the conflict start we knew thi wa go to be a challeng , '' say anu nayaran , unicef ' s senior advis on child nutrit in emerg . `` if you are not breastfeed your child , you ' re in the middl of a conflict , you are not go to suddenli be abl to start feed your infant , '' she say . `` you are wholli reliant on babi formula . '' amal manag to breastfe moham for a month but then found she wasn ' t produc enough milk . `` i wa afraid and nervou all the time . i wasn ' t focus on good food for me . so i didn ' t have milk for him , '' she say . `` but i tri . '' as the war progress it got harder . gaza ' s water system is bare function . most new mother are dehydr , which hamper their abil to produc milk . `` peopl are get less than two litr of water a day and that ' s bare enough to drink , let alon wash , '' say ms nayaran . not enough babi formula is get into gaza . there is littl left on the market . although the un ha respond by send it in as aid , the number of truck enter gaza is much lower than befor the outbreak of war . meanwhil the fight and the breakdown of social order mean convoy insid gaza have been attack and loot . israel deni imped the entri of aid to gaza and blame aid agenc on the ground for fail to distribut what doe get in . but on friday australian foreign minist penni wong said there were larg stock of food wait to go in to gaza , `` but there is no way to move it across the border into gaza and deliv it at scale without israel ' s co - oper , and we implor israel to allow more aid into gaza now `` . becaus of the lack of clean water , unicef is send pre - mix babi formula to gaza . it is safer to use but harder to transport in larg quantiti . three day into recoveri from her c - section , amal wa displac for the first time , forc to evacu her mother ' s home . the fourth time they were displac they left in the night , two hour befor the place wa bomb . `` i couldn ' t take the milk and diaper with me becaus they destroy the whole build to the ground , '' she said . amal initi took her children to rafah , think it would be safer , but return to the khan youni area . she couldn ' t find the thing she need in rafah . moham ha a dairi allergi ; ordinari formula make him sick . she found one tub of non - dairi formula but it wa $ 40 ( £ 31 ) , ten time the price befor the war . by mid - januari the famili were live on a patch of scrubland outsid khan youni and amal had onli two day of babi formula left . at three month old , moham could eat noth els . `` i ' ll dig the mountain to provid it , '' she text . `` my babi need it . '' she sent her brother to search in the rubbl of build but they came back empti - hand . she decid to go to rafah to search the shop and market again . that journey would usual take just 20 minut by car , but isra forc were now activ on the rout . on the way they encount three tank ; one fire in their direct with the shot land near the car . the driver revers and they escap . panick and desper to get back to her children , she didn ' t manag to find ani formula . fight in khan youni intensifi in februari and the nois from the explos wa especi difficult for noah . he ha epilepsi and the bomb make hi seizur wors . hi epilepsi medic ha run out and amal can ' t find it anywher . the famili have littl food and less water . amal ha been boil it over the fire to tri to get it clean . `` it ' s still dirti but i ' m do my best , '' she said . about 24 , 000 children have been born sinc the begin of thi war , accord to estim by the who . gaza ' s entir popul is face crisi level of hunger but the risk is especi acut for young children . `` children can get sick veri fast , '' say anu nayaran at unicef . they have fewer store of fat and muscl and can slip quickli into acut malnutrit . '' even when they are treat there are long - term consequ . malnutrit can lead to higher rate of diabet , heart diseas and even obes in later life . a studi of adult in the democrat republ of congo , who were treat for sever acut malnutrit as children , found it had a long - term effect on their cognit develop , neg affect educ achiev and self - esteem . amal ha given up on find formula for now . but moham would not go hungri , yet . she found a mother in the same area who is breastfeed him alongsid her own babi . amal wa pay her with some babi cloth and a littl money . they were camp on a patch of sand in the coastal area of al - mawasi in tent made from plank and rubber sheet , eat can food and bread from donat flour if they could get it and cook with forag wood . al - mawasi had been design as a `` humanitarian area `` by the isra militari earlier on in the war . even that set - up would not last long . last sunday they were displac yet again when their camp came under attack . the tent next to amal ' s wa shell and four peopl were kill . `` it ' s a miracl we are aliv , '' she text . like mani other gazan she ha now resort to onlin crowdfund to tri to rais the thousand of dollar her famili will need to pay broker to get on a list of peopl approv to leav gaza for egypt and safeti . one even amal sent the last pictur she took of her life befor the war , date the night of 6 octob . noah wa lie on the soft carpet , prop up on a big cushion , watch cartoon on tv and swig milk from hi bottl . he ' s kick hi leg in the air under the soft glow of fairi light on the live room wall . he fell asleep tuck up with hi mother that night in a world far away from the dust , dirt and brutal that mark their life now . `` i ' m tri to do what is possibl , '' said amal . `` i just need to rescu my kid from thi horrif war . ''