the un children ' s agenc unicef ha told the bbc a convoy carri aid wa deni entri to northern gaza , despit have all the necessari document , ad that thi is a common occurr . unicef spokesman jame elder , who wa on a lorri in the convoy , also said that while wait at a checkpoint he wit the fatal shoot of two gazan fishermen . in their respons , the israel defens forc said document for the unicef vehicl in the convoy wa not fill out correctli and accus mr elder of present a `` partial pictur `` . mr elder said peopl had told him they would be `` happi if there is an air strike `` on their home , to end their suffer . in an interview with the bbc ' s today programm , mr elder said : “ they ’ re so despair , they ’ re so broken , they ’ ve lost so mani famili member , they have noth left . ” he said the area of gaza be deni aid were suffer from level of sever malnutrit unpreced in gaza . he ad that doctor in gaza had need to be train to deal with the most seriou case as they had not experienc them in the past . hi remark came after world health organ director - gener tedro adhanom ghebreyesu said on wednesday that a signific proport of gaza ' s popul were face `` catastroph hunger and famin - like condit `` . more than 8 , 000 children under five year old had been diagnos and treat for acut malnutrit , of whom more than 1 , 500 had a more sever form , dr tedro ad . more than 37 , 000 peopl have been kill , and mani hundr of thousand more injur or displac in israel ' s offens against hama in gaza , accord to the hama - run health ministri . the war began after hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 251 other back to gaza as hostag . mr elder describ how on wednesday he wa travel on a unicef lorri in an aid convoy tri to get from southern to northern gaza . he said that despit have all the necessari paperwork it took them 13 hour to travel about 40km ( 30 mile ) . after spend eight hour at checkpoint they were final deni entri , he said , `` so 10 , 000 children who were go to benefit from nutrit suppli , medic suppli , did not `` . mr elder said he did not know whi the convoy wa deni entri , but said such denial were `` consist and relentless `` and that there were hundr of exampl . the idf said in a statement that a problem aros becaus unicef had use a lorri with a rear close cabin which requir prior coordin with the author , ad that hama frequent exploit close cabin to smuggl weapon and terrorist into northern gaza . it said unicef had initi claim the lorri did not includ a close cabin but thi claim turn out to be fals . '' onc the situat wa clarifi , [ unicef ] wa offer to continu it movement northward without the mention truck or to submit appropri coordin for the follow day , '' the idf ad . '' as long as the coordin process is properli conduct , passag will be allow , '' the statement continu . mr elder also said that dure the checkpoint wait he saw about eight fishermen tri to catch fish with a singl net . `` suddenli we heard a tank come down , we heard ... automat fire , '' he said . '' we saw two men on the beach , two fishermen flee , one wa shot in the back , one in the neck . '' the unicef spokesman said the who , who had paramed in the convoy , call through to the idf to be allow to give the men medic support , but that support wa deni . he said he wa later abl to see the fishermen ' s wound when their colleagu were allow to retriev the bodi . the idf said it wa look into what it describ as the `` incid on the beach which wa mention in the interview `` . mr elder , who wa last in gaza six week ago , said thing were much wors now . '' it ' s the first time i ' ve seen a real level of despond , '' he said . '' it ' s veri unsettl to see a child when their parent can ' t protect them , it ' s heartbreak when a parent can ' t protect their child , so increasingli i ' m hear peopl say i just want thi over , i ' m happi if there ' s an air strike on me tonight . '' speak again to the bbc on saturday , mr elder warn against the normalis of thi `` horror show on children `` . `` there is noth normal about walk through thi hospit , speak to a mother as i did 10 minut ago , who wa asleep in her famili home when a rocket hit . next thing she ' s in the rubbl three floor below , two of her children are kill and the third ... ha seriou head injuri . ''