palestinian medic staff in gaza have told the bbc they were blindfold , detain , forc to strip and repeatedli beaten by isra troop after a raid at their hospit last month . ahm abu sabha , a doctor at nasser hospit , describ be held for a week in detent , where , he said , muzzl dog were set upon him and hi hand wa broken by an isra soldier . hi account close match those of two other medic who want to remain anonym for fear of repris . they told the bbc they were humili , beaten , dous with cold water , and forc to kneel in uncomfort posit for hour . they said they were detain for day befor be releas . the bbc suppli detail of their alleg to the israel defens forc ( idf ) . they did not respond directli to question about these account , or deni specif claim of mistreat . but they deni that medic staff were harm dure their oper . they said that `` ani abus of detaine is contrari to idf order and is therefor strictli prohibit `` . warn : some reader may find detail in thi articl distress . the idf raid the hospit in the southern gazan citi of khan youni - which wa one of the few in the strip still function - on 15 februari , say intellig indic that the hospit hous hama oper . they also said isra hostag taken by hama on 7 octob had been held there - and some of the hostag themselv have publicli said they were kept at nasser . hama ha deni that it fighter oper insid medic facil . footag secretli film in the hospit on 16 februari , the day the medic were detain , wa share with the bbc . it show a row of men strip to their underwear in front of the hospit ' s emerg build , kneel with their hand behind their head . medic robe are lie in front of some of them . `` anybodi who tri to move hi head or make ani movement got hit , '' the hospit ' s gener manag , dr atef al - hout , told the bbc . `` they left them for around two hour in thi shame posit . '' the idf told the bbc : `` as a rule , dure the arrest process , it is often necessari for terror suspect to hand over their cloth such that their cloth can be search and to ensur that they are not conceal explos vest or other weaponri . `` cloth are not immedi return to the detaine , due to the suspicion they may conceal mean that can be use for hostil purpos ( such as knive ) . detaine are given back their cloth when it ' s possibl to do so . '' medic staff said that they were then taken into a hospit build , beaten , and then transport to a detent facil , all while undress . dr abu sabha , the 26 - year - old newli qualifi doctor and volunt medic at nasser , describ some element of hi treatment while in detent as tortur , such as make detaine stand for hour without a break . he said other punish given to detaine includ be made to lie on their stomach for prolong period and delay their meal . an expert in humanitarian law said the footag and the testimoni from the medic staff interview by the bbc wa `` extrem concern `` . he said some of the account provid to the bbc `` veri clearli cross over into the categori of cruel and inhuman treatment `` . dr lawrenc hill - cawthorn , co - director of the centr for intern law at the univers of bristol , said : `` it goe against what ha for a long time been a veri fundament idea in the law that appli in arm conflict , which is that hospit and medic staff are protect . '' `` the fact that they treat nation of the enemi side should not in ani way undermin their protect , '' he said . the bbc ha been investig the hospit ' s stori for sever week , speak to doctor , nurs , pharmacist and displac peopl camp in the courtyard . we have cross - check detail in these account . we were given the name of 49 nasser medic personnel said to have been detain . of those , 26 were name by multipl sourc , includ medic on the ground , the hama - run health ministri , intern group , and the famili of those miss . the three medic who say they were detain and later releas have not given their account publicli befor . they includ dr abu sabha , who we interview twice . hi stori remain consist , and we corrobor key part of hi account independ . famili of five other medic at the hospit have told the bbc their love one are miss . in addit , the intern committe of the red cross ha confirm to the bbc that it ha receiv dozen of phone call from peopl who say famili member , includ medic , who were at nasser , are now miss . medic who remain at nasser say the idf ' s oper at the hospit left them unabl to care for patient . when the idf took control , nearli 200 patient were be treat there , mani of them `` bedridden `` , includ six insid the icu , accord to dr hout , the gener manag . those staff allow to remain have describ be order to move serious ill patient between build , be taken away from their duti to be interrog , and assign patient whose case they were not train to deal with , all as they work in cramp , unsanitari condit . multipl medic said that 13 patient die in the day after israel ' s takeov . they said mani of those patient had die becaus of the condit at the hospit , includ a lack of electr , water , and other essenti need to keep nasser run . we can not independ verifi thi . a doctor share photo of bodi in bag on bed that we have confirm were taken in a ward at the hospit . the idf told the bbc that it had `` provid the hospit with hundr of food ration and an altern gener that enabl it to continu function and treat the patient within it `` . the `` essenti system `` of the hospit kept function dure the idf ' s oper on an uninterrupt power suppli system , it said . on 18 februari , the world health organ ( who ) said the hospit wa short of food and basic medic suppli , and had ceas to function . the remain patient were sent to other hospit around gaza and the medic staff who work there left shortli afterward . releas detaine and other medic told the bbc that the matern build , call mubarak , becam the place where the idf interrog and beat staff . dr abu sabha said he wa initi pick to stay with patient after the raid , but wa later taken to mubarak , which he said had becom `` more like a tortur place `` . `` they put me on a chair and it wa like a gallow , '' he said . `` i heard sound of rope , so i thought i wa go to be execut . `` after that they broke a bottl and it [ the glass ] cut my leg and they left it to bleed . then they start bring doctor after doctor in and start put them next to each other . i wa hear their name and their voic . '' the idf told the bbc it `` doe not and ha not carri out mock execut of detaine , and reject such claim `` . all three of the detaine the bbc spoke to said they were cram onto militari vehicl and beaten as they were transport in a larg group . soldier beat them with stick , hose , rifl butt and fist , they said . `` we were nake . just wear boxer . they pile us on top of each other . and they took us out of gaza , '' one of the medic who want to remain anonym said . `` all along the way we were be hit and sworn at and humili . and they pour cold water on us `` . dr abu sabha said that dure the journey , soldier took the detaine out of the vehicl . `` they took us to a patch of ground cover in gravel , forc us to kneel down and our eye blind - fold … there wa a pit in the ground , and we thought they would execut us and buri us here . we all start prayer . '' he wa then driven to a build where he and the other detaine with him would be held , he said . the two other releas detaine said that at some stage they were given medic check but no medic . one said that instead of get treatment for an injuri , an idf soldier hit him where he wa injur . dr abu sabha told the bbc that detaine were routin punish for perceiv infract . `` at one point , the blindfold move down a bit and my hand were handcuf from behind and i could not fix it . `` they took me out for punish … i wa stand with my hand rais abov my head and my face look down for three hour . then , he [ a soldier ] ask me to come to him . when i did , he kept hit my hand until it wa broken . '' later that day , he wa taken to the toilet , beaten , and had muzzl dog set on him , he said . the day after , an isra doctor fit him with a cast and then soldier drew a star of david on it , he said . thi cast wa later chang by a doctor in gaza and ahm wa wear a cast dure hi interview with the bbc . the bbc confirm that dr abu sabha had an x - ray and sought treatment for a broken hand at a field hospit in gaza after hi detent , and that he arriv there in a cast with a star of david drawn on it . the idf did not address the bbc ' s question about dr abu sahba ' s cast . none of the three medic were made awar of ani specif charg , but two said interrog focus on whether they had seen hostag or hama fighter within the hospit . they said they were also ask about their whereabout on 7 octob , when hama gunmen rampag from gaza into israel and kill about 1 , 200 peopl , take 253 other hostag . more than 130 hostag are still believ to be held by hama . isra offici have said at least 30 of them are dead . the hama - run health ministri in gaza say more than 31 , 000 peopl have been kill in israel ' s retaliatori air strike and it ongo ground offens . one of the releas detaine said that two day after be interrog , idf offic told him there wa no evid and he would be releas . `` i ask him , ' who will compens me for all the beat and humili i ' ve been through , that you did to me , while i knew that i wasn ' t involv in anyth ? ' he start mutter , ' i don ' t have anyth on you . no charg . ' '' dr abu sabha told the bbc he wa never interrog dure hi eight day of detent . the three medic we spoke to say they were transport back to gaza blindfold after their releas . the bbc ha confirm dr abu sabha ' s account that he cross back into gaza at the isra - control kerem shalom cross , which is near the southernmost point of the strip where gaza , israel and egypt meet . the medic ' account are at odd with a separ brief given to the bbc by a senior idf offici who said that no arrest were made of medic staff at nasser , `` unless we knew that it wa possibl to get thi or that intellig inform `` from them . `` we had reason ground to assum that they have inform , so we took them in for question and interrog , but not beyond that , '' the offici said . `` there were no handcuff , we did not take them away for interrog , nor for advanc arrest , but for the purpos of question and tri to obtain inform about the hostag or the hama command who were in the hospit … a veri simpl question and that ' s it . '' some hostag taken from israel on 7 octob have describ be brought into the nasser hospit complex in an ambul . one releas hostag said her husband - who remain in gaza - wa cover in a sheet to look like a corps . they have describ be kept in small room and be forc to knock if they need to go to the toilet . one ha describ her time in captiv as `` psycholog warfar `` . the intern committe of the red cross ( icrc ) say that sinc 7 octob , israel ha suspend it detent visit , mean it ha not been abl to visit ani detaine . it told the bbc it wa `` deepli concern `` by the report of arrest and ongo detent of medic . `` wherev and whoever they may be , detaine need to be treat human and with digniti at all time , in accord of intern humanitarian law , '' it said . `` the icrc ha continu call for , and is readi to immedi resum , detent visit in order to monitor the treatment of detaine and the condit of detent . '' an intern un report seen by the bbc ha describ widespread abus of palestinian who have been captur and interrog at makeshift isra detent centr sinc the war began , which are similar to the account the medic gave . the idf ha previous deni specif alleg in the un report , includ the denial of access to water , medic care and bed . meanwhil , in nasser hospit , a few medic were allow to stay and care for the remain patient . some patient had been detain dure the raid , accord to dr hout , the gener manag . in one video provid to us by a nasser eyewit , idf soldier wheel two hospit bed and the occup ' hand are hoist abov their head , zip - tie . we have verifi it is authent . in separ footag publish by the idf , peopl can be seen lie on bed in the hospit ground with their hand zip - tie , their arm in a similar rais posit . we do not know who these peopl are , or what happen to them after thi footag . the idf said : `` we emphas that the hand of patient who were not suspect of involv in terror were not tie . '' medic who remain were frighten of be shot if they defi order not to leav the build , dr hatim rabaa , who also work at nasser , told the bbc in a phone call on 22 februari , as explos sound in the background . but nevertheless they went down to the yard to collect water , worri that patient would otherwis die , he said . `` peopl were die of thirst . on my shoulder i carri three gallon of water so that i can make peopl drink . what els could i do ? '' multipl medic said that the idf would not grant them permiss to buri or even move the bodi of patient who die in the aftermath of the oper . the bodi remain insid with staff and patient as they began to decompos , the medic said . `` the smell fill the whole depart , '' dr rabaa said . `` patient were scream ' pleas remov them from here ' . i wa tell them ' it isn ' t in my hand ' . '' dr rabaa wa one of a small group of medic chosen to remain with patient . he said that he too had been strip to hi underwear and made to kneel in front of the emerg depart - but he wa then led away to the build where patient were kept . he said he doe not know what happen to hi colleagu he left behind in the courtyard . the bbc put detail question about the alleg to the isra militari . in it respons , the idf told the bbc that `` about 200 terrorist and suspect of terrorist activ were detain , includ some who pose as medic team `` . they said that `` mani weapon were found , as well as close medicin intend for isra hostag `` . they said they had oper in a `` precis and focus manner , creat minim damag to the hospit ' s ongo activ , and without harm the patient or the medic staff `` . addit report by muath al khatib and by bbc arab ' s mari - jose al azzi and soha ibrahim verif by richard irvin - brown , benedict garman and emma pengelli , bbc verifi visual journal and design by gerri fletcher , lilli huynh and zoe bartholomew