israel ’ s prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha dissolv hi six - member war cabinet , a wide expect decis that follow the departur of centrist opposit leader benni gantz and hi alli gadi eisenkot . isra media report that sensit issu about the war with hama in gaza will now be decid by a smaller forum . sinc mr gantz quit eight day ago over what he said wa the lack of strategi for the war , there have been call from far - right minist to take hi place . by dissolv the war cabinet , mr netanyahu avoid a tricki situat with hi coalit partner and intern alli . a spokesman for the israel defens forc ( idf ) said that , as far as it wa concern , it would not affect the chain of command . mr gantz and mr eisenkot join a nation uniti govern with mr netanyahu ’ s right - wing coalit day after the start of the war in octob . the two former idf chief of staff announc their resign on 9 june , with mr gantz say that the prime minist ’ s leadership wa “ prevent us from approach true victori ” . immedi afterward , far - right nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir said he had written to mr netanyahu to demand that he be ad to the war cabinet . on sunday night , mr netanyahu reportedli inform minist that he had decid to dissolv the decis - make bodi rather than bring in new member . “ the [ war ] cabinet wa in the coalit agreement with gantz at hi request . as soon as gantz left - there is no need for a cabinet anymor , '' he said , accord to the jerusalem post . haaretz report that some of the issu previous discuss by the war cabinet would be transfer for discuss in the 14 - member secur cabinet , which includ mr ben - gvir and fellow far - right financ minist bezalel smotrich . it said sensit decis would be address in a “ smaller consult forum ” , which wa expect to includ defenc minist yoav gallant , strateg affair minist ron dermer and the chairman of the ultra - orthodox sha parti , aryeh deri . the three men were in the war cabinet along with the prime minist , mr gantz and mr eisenkot . the idf ' s chief spokesman , rear admir daniel hagari , insist on monday that such move would not affect it oper . '' cabinet member are be chang and the method is be chang . we have the echelon , we know the chain of command . we ' re work accord to the chain of command . thi is a democraci , ” he told report . the isra militari launch a campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to an unpreced attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 251 other were taken hostag . more than 37 , 340 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . there have been further sign of strain in the isra govern in the past day , with mr netanyahu and hi far - right minist criticis a decis by the idf to introduc daytim “ tactic paus in militari activ ” near the southern gaza citi of rafah to allow more deliveri of humanitarian aid . the paus are meant to allow lorri to collect aid from the isra - control kerem shalom border cross , south - east of rafah , and then travel safe to reach the main north - south road insid gaza . suppli have been held back at the cross point sinc israel began an oper in rafah last month . but mr ben - gvir decri the polici as foolish , while isra media quot mr netanyahu as say : “ we have a countri with an armi , not an armi with a countri . ” the idf respond by say that the paus did not mean the fight in southern gaza would stop , which creat confus over what exactli wa happen on the ground . the un agenc for palestinian refuge ( unrwa ) , which is the largest humanitarian organis in gaza , report that fight wa continu in rafah and elsewher in the south on monday and that “ oper noth ha chang yet ” . the idf meanwhil said that it troop were “ continu intellig - base , target oper in the area of rafah ” . it ad that they had locat weapon , struck structur rig with explos and elimin “ sever terrorist ” in the tal al - sultan area . with littl sign of progress toward a full ceasefir in gaza , there have been new warn from the isra militari that the lower - level conflict with the lebanes arm group hezbollah is now threaten to spiral into a wider war . follow a recent intensif in exchang of fire , a key us diplomat is return to the region to tri to reduc tension on the israel - lebanon border .