the unit nation ha respond to isra claim that one of it aid warehous in gaza wa be use by palestinian gunmen , say it staff had evacu and abandon the compound . the israel defens forc ( idf ) releas drone footag that it said show arm `` terrorist roam and shoot `` next to mark un vehicl at the facil in eastern rafah on saturday . it warn the un `` of the danger that exist in the presenc of the terrorist in the logist centr `` . the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa , said the footag did like show one of it warehous but said it had been abandon earlier last week , after evacu order were issu by the idf . unrwa ' s commun director , juliett touma , told bbc news the agenc wa unabl to verifi the authent or the content of the footag , and that it did not have ani inform on the time or exact locat . she stress that un staff had evacu the compound prior to saturday , leav behind some vehicl and food aid . she said under no circumst should anyon have or use weapon in a un facil . israel ha previous accus unrwa worker of be member of hama and particip in the 7 octob attack on southern israel that trigger the war in gaza . a un - commiss review found israel had fail to provid evid to back up the claim . the drone footag releas by the idf on tuesday is in three part . bbc news ha verifi that it doe show an unrwa food distribut warehous in eastern rafah . it ha not been possibl to verifi that the footag wa film on saturday . the first piec of drone footag show three men dress in black , with weapon slung over their shoulder , stand between two white car with un mark . in the second , a man is seen pass a weapon - a rifl - through the window of a white , unmark pickup truck park next to a larg build with un mark on it roof . the third piec show a figur in black chase peopl from the compound at gunpoint and gestur them away . from the 49 second of releas footag , it is not possibl to confirm whether weapon were fire , as claim by the idf . the idf ha present thi video as evid of un complic with hama , and it ha been seiz upon by some of israel ’ s support and critic of the un . idf spokesman lt col peter lerner post the footag on x , formerli twitter , write : `` the un need to answer some seriou question . imagin what would ’ ve happen if we were to target them ? the hypocrisi is astound . '' he said that , in hi view , `` the warehous wa not be evacu `` and that hama wa `` strut around like they own the place `` . he ad : `` unrwa pledg neutral , no weapon allow on their site . there is noth neutral about hama gunmen with their pickup and ak - 47 on the un premis . '' unrwa ' s assert that it staff had alreadi left the compound leav open the possibl other had move in to make use of the abandon build and vehicl . bbc news ha approach the idf for a respons but is yet to hear back . israel is yet to fulli explain the circumst surround the death of a un secur worker on monday . former indian armi offic waibhav kale wa kill , and hi jordanian colleagu injur , when their car wa fire on near rafah . social media footag , verifi by the bbc , show a mark un vehicl with multipl bullet hole outsid the european gaza hospit . the idf said an initi inquiri indic the vehicl wa struck in an activ combat zone and it had not been made awar of it rout . the rafah aid distribut centr wa previous hit by an air strike on 13 march , kill one member of unrwa ' s staff and injur 22 . the idf said it had kill a hama command in a `` precis strike `` . bbc news ha verifi that the march air strike hit the same facil shown in thi latest video , and that the new footag wa film after that strike . sever nation , includ the uk , stop fund unrwa after israel alleg some of it staff were member of hama who particip in the 7 octob attack . a review commiss by the un said israel had not provid evid to back up the claim , but it found that unrwa should improv it neutral , staff vet and transpar . addit report by alba morgad & ben garman .