thousand of peopl have march through london to ask for hostag be held by hama to be brought home . the ' unit we bring them home ' march on sunday began at lincoln ' s inn field in holborn and end in whitehal , central london . famili of isra hostag who attend on sunday call for all parti in the ongo israel - palestinian conflict to act fast to `` bring our love one home `` . the event wa organis by hostag and miss famili forum uk and wa also attend by a varieti of organis . a total of 121 peopl remain unaccount for after be kidnap by hama on 7 octob , with least 37 of them presum dead . speaker at the event includ hostag ' famili , honorari presid of the conserv friend of israel lord polak cbe , and professor daniel shek , former isra ambassador to franc . the uk ' s chief rabbi ephraim mirvi also attend . peopl travel from as far as australia and the us to go to the march . omer neutra , a 22 - year - old tank command in the isra defenc forc ( idf ) , wa taken by hama and hi uncl and aunt osnat and menachem getz were in london for the event . mr getz said omer ha dual american - isra citizenship , and when he finish high school he took a gap year trip in israel to `` learn about hi famili rout `` , later decid `` it wa hi oblig to do servic in the armi `` and join the idf . '' hama releas a video show omer and hi group be taken hostag , '' he ad . '' sinc that day , we have heard noth . there ha been no sign of omer . it ' s devast and no famili should go through such horribl day . '' although us presid joe biden ha urg israel and hama to reach a ceasefir and hostag exchang agreement , the famili said time is run out . mr getz said : `` we still have hope . but everi day is crucial , everi day is critic . '' merav and amir daniel ' s son , oz , 19 , wa also a member of the idf and wa kill on 7 octob . they said they initi believ he wa taken hostag and onli found out about hi death four and a half month after the attack . mr daniel said : `` it ' s veri hard for us to travel the world and to speak to peopl . but we can not just sit at home and cri . '' three month after hi death , the famili said are still yet to get oz ' s bodi back . he ad : `` we ask the whole world to return our oz , our son , with the other hostag . '' the time is critic . the hostag have no time left . bring them home . '' more than 36 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc the start of the conflict , accord to the hama - run health ministri . the war began in octob when hama gunmen launch an unpreced attack on israel , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 back to gaza as hostag . follow bbc london on facebook , twitter and instagram . send your stori idea to hellobbclondon @ bbc . co . uk