the isra militari say 99 % of the missil and drone fire by iran overnight were intercept without hit their target . iran said the assault wa in respons to a deadli attack on an iranian diplomat compound in syria two week ago . where thi goe next from here depend in larg part on how israel decid to respond to last night ' s attack . countri in the region and elsewher , includ those that deepli dislik the iranian regim , have urg restraint . iran ' s posit is along the line of : `` account settl , that is the end of the matter , do not hit back at us or we will mount a much stronger attack against you that you will not be abl to ward off . '' but , israel ha alreadi vow `` a signific respons `` and it govern ha often been call one of the most hardlin in isra histori . it respond to the murder hama - led attack of 7 octob on southern israel within hour and then spent the next six month batter the gaza strip . israel ' s war cabinet is unlik to leav thi direct attack from iran unansw , howev calibr and limit it effect ha been on the ground . so what are israel ' s option ? it could listen to it neighbour in the region and exercis what is known as `` strateg patienc `` , hold off from respond in kind and instead continu to target iran ' s proxi alli in the region such as hezbollah in lebanon or militari suppli site in syria , as it ha been do for year . israel could retali with a seri of similar , care calibr , long - rang missil strike , target onli those missil base from which iran launch last night ' s attack . that would still be seen by iran as an escal , sinc it would be a veri direct attack by israel on iran itself , as oppos to hit it proxi militia around the region . or , israel could choos to climb one more rung up the escalatori ladder , by broaden it possibl respons to includ base , train camp and command - and - control centr belong to iran ' s power revolutionari guard corp - the irgc . either of the latter two option risk prompt further retali by iran . the key question here is whether thi all drag in the us , lead to a full - scale shoot war between iran and us forc in the region . the us ha militari facil in all six of the gulf arab state , as well as in syria , iraq and jordan . these could all becom target for iran ' s massiv stockpil of ballist and other missil that it ha manag to build up over the year , despit intern sanction . iran could also do someth it ha long threaten to do if attack : it could tri to close the strateg vital strait of hormuz , use mine , drone and fast attack craft , choke off nearli a quarter of the world ' s oil suppli . thi is the nightmar scenario , drag in the us and the gulf state into a region - wide war , which mani govern are now work around the clock to avoid .