israel ' s militari ha said it ha taken control of the strateg import buffer zone along the gaza - egypt border known as the philadelphi corridor , mean it now control gaza ' s entir land border . a spokesman for the israel defens forc ( idf ) said about 20 tunnel use by hama to smuggl weapon into gaza had been found within the zone . egyptian tv quot sourc deni thi , and said israel wa tri to justifi it militari oper in the southern gaza citi of rafah . the idf ha continu it offens in rafah and elsewher in gaza , say air strike hit over 50 `` terror target `` over the past day . three isra soldier were kill and three other serious injur on wednesday in a boobi - trap build in rafah , the idf said . two other soldier were kill in a car - ram attack near the citi of nablu in the occupi west bank , it said . secur forc are search for the driver . idf spokesman rear admir daniel hagari said on wednesday that forc had `` establish oper control `` of the philadelphi corridor . he describ the area as a `` lifelin `` for hama , through which the group `` regularli smuggl weapon into the gaza strip `` . he said troop were `` investig .. and neutralis `` tunnel found in the area . mr hagari later said in a brief with report that he could not be sure that all of the tunnel cross into egypt , the new york time report . the philadelphi corridor is a buffer zone , onli about 100m ( 330ft ) wide in part , which run along the gaza side of the 13km ( 8 - mile ) border with egypt . gaza ' s onli other land border is with israel itself . egypt ha previous said it had destroy cross - border tunnel , make ani weapon smuggl imposs . and a `` high - level `` egyptian sourc , quot by al - qahera news , accus israel of `` use these alleg to justifi continu the oper on the palestinian citi of rafah and prolong the war for polit purpos `` . israel ha insist that it must take rafah to achiev victori in the war trigger by hama ’ s unpreced attack on the countri on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . at least 36 , 170 peopl have been kill across gaza sinc the start of the conflict , accord to the hama - run health ministri . tension between egypt and israel have heighten sinc isra forc took control of the gazan side of the rafah cross point three week ago as part of their offens against hama . earlier thi week , an egyptian soldier wa kill in an incid involv egyptian and isra troop in the border area near rafah . egypt is a strong support of the palestinian and ha condemn israel ' s militari campaign in gaza and the kill of thousand of civilian by israel in the war . like israel , egypt ha maintain a blockad on it border with gaza sinc hama came to power in 2006 . hama is an off - shoot of the islamist muslim brotherhood organis , which is ban as a terrorist group in egypt . egypt ha , howev , kept channel open with hama and ha been act as a mediat in on - off indirect talk between israel and the group to tri to reach a ceasefir deal and releas of isra hostag held by hama in gaza .