isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu will address us lawmak in washington dc on 24 juli , congression leader announc on thursday . he will speak to both chamber of congress - the senat and the hous of repres - as the israel - gaza war continu . republican and democrat both invit the prime minist to speak , but the date of hi speech wa not made offici until thursday . last month the intern crimin court ' s prosecutor appli for arrest warrant against the isra leader and hi defenc minist , yoav galant , on charg relat to the war . mr netanyahu condemn the icc move , say he reject with disgust that `` democrat israel `` had been compar to what he call `` mass murder `` . mr netanyahu said , accord to a statement releas by congression leader , that he wa `` veri move to have the privileg of repres israel ... to present the truth about our just war against those who seek to destroy us `` . in their letter invit the prime minist , hous speaker mike johnson and senat minor leader mitch mcconnel - both republican - said they hope mr netanyahu would take the opportun to `` share the isra govern ' s vision for defend democraci , combat terror , and establish a just and last peac in the region `` . mr netanyahu ' s visit come as that relationship with the us ha grown tens , especi among lead us democrat . top senat democrat chuck schumer said in a separ statement that he support the invit despit hi `` clear and profound disagr with the prime minist , which i have voic both privat and publicli `` . '' but becaus america ' s relationship with israel is ironclad and transcend one person or prime minist i join the request for him to speak , '' he said . us presid joe biden , a democrat , ha also grown more critic of israel as the war continu and the death toll in gaza climb . mr biden , who is run for re - elect in novemb , ha come under polit pressur from hi parti ' s left flank to do more to convinc israel to limit it war in gaza . some progress leader , such as sen berni sander of vermont , have said they intend to boycott mr netanyahu ' s speech in protest at israel ' s conduct in the gaza strip . hama - led fighter kill about 1 , 200 peopl and took 251 other hostag dure an attack on southern israel on 7 octob . at least 36 , 470 peopl have been kill in gaza in almost eight month of fight sinc then , accord to the hama - run health ministri . mr biden ha recent made public hi administr ' s push for a ceasefir deal that would begin a six - week cessat of hostil in gaza . the three - part plan that the presid unveil last week would see a `` surg `` of humanitarian aid , as well as an exchang of some hostag for palestinian prison befor a perman end to the war . the propos , howev , ha encount vocal opposit from some member of israel ' s govern , which ha rais doubt that an agreement might be reach . hanoch milwidski , a senior member of the knesset for mr netanyahu ' s likud parti , told the bbc on sunday that israel ' s govern coalit wa unifi in opposit to the deal , which he call `` complet unaccept `` . mr netanyahu last spoke to the us congress in 2015 , when both chamber were control by republican . he use the opportun to criticis then presid barack obama , a democrat , for pursu a deal with us alli and iran to curtail tehran ' s nuclear programm .