polic have arrest hundr more protest in locat across the us , as protest against the war in gaza intensifi across univers campus . some 108 arrest were made at emerson colleg , boston polic told the bbc ' s us partner cb news . earlier , 93 peopl at the univers of southern california ( usc ) in lo angel were taken into custodi on trespass charg . protest and polic also clash at the univers of texa in austin . author said 34 peopl were arrest there too . univers across the us have seen a grow number of student walk out of class or tri to set up encamp to protest against israel ' s militari campaign in gaza . the latest arrest follow other at columbia , yale , brown and new york univers . at la ' s usc , arrest were made as student gather in alumni park - where the univers ' s main - stage graduat ceremoni is schedul to take place next month . polic offic in riot gear clear a pro - palestinian encamp at the centr of the campu , prevent demonstr from gather . student receiv a 10 - minut warn from polic helicopt to dispers . those who refus were arrest on trespass charg . kelli munz of the lo angel polic depart told journalist that offic were in the area and arriv to assist the univers when protest refus to leav . `` the univers is a privat campu and the group had been violat the order - it wa a trespass at that point , '' ms munz said . on it social media channel , usc said the protest had now end but the campu remain close until further notic , ad : `` student with usc id will have access through pedestrian gate and everyon who is on campu will be abl to leav . '' the protest wa report to have been larg peac at first , but then turn tens with the continu polic presenc . video onlin show protest throw water bottl at the polic when they tri to detain one woman , chant , `` let her go ! '' other protest gather around the offic , drown out their warn with `` free palestin `` chant . student , some wear kaffiyeh were hold `` liber zone `` sign , bang drum . elsewher in the countri , boston polic told cb that three offic had been injur in the action at emerson colleg - one of them serious , though their condit wa not life - threaten . no protest were hurt , polic ad . student are said to have been camp out sinc sunday , allegedli ignor warn to leav . emerson colleg ha not yet comment on the arrest . in a previou statement , it said it support the right to peac protest - while urg activist to compli with the law . meanwhil at harvard univers , student brave the cold to set up more than 30 tent in front of the john harvard statu in harvard yard - the oldest part of the univers - on wednesday night . they remain there on thursday . earlier , there were chaotic scene on the campu of the univers of texa in austin as hundr of local and state polic on horseback , hold baton , dispers protest . governor greg abbott deploy the nation guard to stop the demonstr from march through campu , say , they `` belong in jail `` . social media footag show offic push into the crowd , while warn demonstr on loudspeak to leav the premis or face arrest . `` i command you in the name of the peopl of the state of texa to dispers , '' the announc said . thirti - four peopl were arrest , offici said . a photograph for fox news 7 austin wa seen fall to the ground with hi camera while surround by riot polic . the us outlet later confirm that the cameraman wa arrest . other protest were seen bundl to the ground by riot polic . but soon afterward around 300 demonstr regroup , sat on the grass under the school ' s icon clock tower and chant `` free palestin `` . protest against israel ' s war in gaza have spread across the countri after more than 100 peopl were arrest at new york citi ' s columbia univers a week ago , after polic tri to clear an encamp . protest at columbia heckl the visit republican hous speaker , mike johnson , earlier on wednesday . the entir campu had been adorn by dozen of palestinian flag and placard with slogan such as `` real american stand with gaza `` , `` demilitaris educ `` and `` there are no univers left in gaza `` . last week , usc cancel outsid speaker for thi year ' s graduat ceremoni , follow controversi surround the cancel of the univers ' s valedictorian speech , due to be given by muslim student asna tabassum . the univers said her speech should not go ahead due to secur concern , after complaint that her social media presenc wa antisemit . ms tabassum said she wa the target of `` a campaign of hate meant to silenc my voic `` . across the us , protest tent have sprung up atharvard univers , the univers of california - berkeley , yale , emerson and the univers of michigan . follow mass arrest of gaza solidar activist across the us , amnesti intern publish a press releas urg univers `` to safeguard and facilit all student ' right to peac and safe protest or counter - protest on their campus . '' pro - israel and jewish group claim some protest includ antisemit element and said they did not feel safe as a result . at columbia univers ' s main campu in new york citi , sever jewish student express concern about a threaten campu environ . but other demonstr argu that incid of harass of jewish student had been rare and blown out of proport by those oppos to their demand . activist have been call for univers to `` divest from genocid `` and to stop invest larg school endow in compani involv in weapon manufactur and other industri support israel ' s war in gaza . follow a case brought by south africa the intern court of justic ( icj ) ha found that palestinian had `` plausibl right to protect from genocid `` - right which were at a real risk of irrepar damag israel strongli deni ani suggest that it is commit genocid in the palestinian enclav . the war began when hama - led gunmen carri out an unpreced attack on southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl - mostli civilian - and take 253 other back to gaza as hostag . more than 34 , 305 peopl - most of them children and women - have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say . updat 20th may : thi articl ha been amend to clarifi the context behind the icj ' s use of the word `` plausibl `` in it rule on the 26th januari .