india ha urg citizen work in israel to `` reloc to safe area `` after an indian nation wa reportedli kill near the border with lebanon . two indian citizen were also serious injur when an anti - tank missil hit a plantat in margaliot on monday . the isra embassi in delhi accus the lebanes arm group hezbollah of be behind the attack . the indian embassi in israel ha sinc advis all it nation to stay away from the border . in a post on x ( formerli twitter ) , the embassi ad that it wa in contact with isra author to `` ensur the safeti of all our nation `` . howev , it did not directli address the anti - tank missil attack , nor how mani peopl had die or been injur . media report in both india and israel say the man wa an indian nation , while the isra embassi in delhi ha also express grief over the death of the man . accord to report , the man had onli move to israel two month ago to work on a farm . the israel defens forc ( idf ) had earlier said it respond by hit the site in lebanon from where the missil wa launch . ten of thousand of peopl live in commun near the border with lebanon have been evacu by isra author follow an escal in hostil with hezbollah on 8 octob , the day after hama ' s attack on southern israel trigger the war in the gaza strip . hezbollah - an iran - back shia islamist group proscrib as a terrorist organis by the uk , us and other - is the largest militari forc in lebanon . it say it is attack israel in support of palestinian in gaza . the isra militari ha carri out air and artilleri strike in respons , fuell fear of a major confront . despit these fear , and the ongo war between israel and hama in the gaza strip , thousand of indian job seeker have appli to work in israel . isra busi have been activ recruit , hope to fill the gap left by some 80 , 000 palestinian bar from work in israel sinc the start of the war between israel and hama in the gaza strip . in india , unemploy remain high , with 42 % of graduat under 25 year old have no job , as shown in the latest state of work india report by azim premji univers . `` thi group ha aspir for higher incom , and they don ' t want to do insecur gig work . thi group is trade that extrem risk [ of go to israel ] for higher incom and some level of reduc precar , '' explain rosa abraham , a labour economist with azim premji univers .