thi morn warn siren sound across northern israel as they do most day . the armi said later that it wa a fals alarm . but for the peopl of israel it wa a remind - if one were need - of just how fast and how easili iran could retali if it want to . for north of the border in lebanon lie some 150 , 000 missil point at israel by the iranian - back militia hezbollah . these are not basic rocket fire out of tube but advanc , accur and power missil that could reach target in israel within minut . and they could be deploy on iran ' s instruct at a moment ' s notic . and yet despit the report isra retali against iran , the street of jerusalem were calm , as peopl went about their busi prepar for shabbat . jogger were out in forc as usual on the beach of tel aviv . the author said there wa no chang in advic to the public ; there were no instruct for peopl to head to shelter . thi reflect the fact that israel ' s air strike on iran appear initi to be limit in scope and scale . ye , israel had chosen to attack on the birthday of iran ' s suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , who turn 85 today . but if the strike wa against militari target that were perhap associ with iran ' s attack on israel last weekend - such as an airbas or drone factori or missil storag facil - then that could be seen as the restrain respons israel ' s western alli were look for . diplomat in europ and the unit state fear israel could respond with what is known local as a `` spectacular `` , a strike perhap that exceed the scale of iran ' s last weekend that involv more than 300 drone and missil . or perhap that target iran ' s nuclear facil . all of which could have trigger a similar iranian retali , risk all - out region war . but instead israel appear to be send a messag to tehran that it can attack deep within iranian territori without restraint . in other word , israel can attack iran ' s nuclear facil - not far from the report locat of the strike - but chose not to on thi occas . jonathan conricu , a former idf spokesman , said : `` iran seek to return to the shadow and is downplay the isra strike on the strateg citi of isfahan , but i think they ' ve gotten the messag : israel can penetr iranian defenc and strike wherev it want . '' by not publicli acknowledg respons for the strike - as is commonplac - israel ' s war cabinet may hope to make it more difficult for hardlin member of the govern coalit to criticis the limit natur of the attack , thu avoid a polit row over passov . but that did not restrain some . israel ' s far - right nation secur minist , itamar ben gvir , said a few day ago he want israel to `` go berserk `` in respons to iran ' s attack . thi morn the minist - upon whose faction the prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , depend - seem less than impress . on x , the social media platform formerli known as twitter , he post one word , best translat as : `` lame . '' israel ' s opposit leader , yair lapid , hit back hard at thi , post : `` a secur cabinet minist ha never caus such heavi damag to the countri ' s secur , imag and intern stand . with an unforgiv , one word tweet ben gvir manag to ridicul and embarrass israel all the way from tehran to washington . ani other prime minist would have thrown him out of the cabinet thi morn . '' there have been report that some ultra - orthodox religi leader had been caution the war cabinet about strike without us support , potenti give mr netanyahu cover for a limit attack on iran . but if thi strike is self - contain and not the start of a seri of attack , then some isra will be unsatisfi . after iran ' s attack last weekend , i spoke to daniel greenzweig , 65 , a businessman work in the hi - tech sector , who told me : `` we need to hit them and we need to hit them hard . they need to realis that that is not the kind of behaviour that can be toler . i am not recommend we destroy their nuclear facil but , if they did , i wouldn ' t have a problem with it . '' but not all isra share that view . in fact , peopl have appear divid over whether - and how hard - their govern should strike back . an opinion poll publish earlier thi week by the hebrew univers of jerusalem suggest 52 % of peopl believ israel should not respond , with 48 % say it should . it also found that onli 28 % of peopl support militari action if it led to a larger overal war , with 34 % say they were oppos , with a sizeabl 38 % say they did not know . so israel await a respons from iran . mani have woken up with real fear about what could happen next . the risk of miscalcul remain . we do not know yet what further strike on iran - if ani - are be consid . i have spoken to intern resid in israel who are activ consid evacu their famili . the australian govern urg it citizen to leav both israel and the occupi palestinian territori , cite a `` high risk of militari repris and terrorist attack `` . the us embassi in jerusalem urg american citizen here to be cautiou , warn the secur environ could chang quickli . the peopl of israel had been prepar for the start of the passov holiday next week . they will now also be wait to see if and when and how iran decid to retali .