the devast landscap of their citi feel unreal to the thousand of palestinian who have been return to khan youni in gaza . through the rubbl of the street , they have been file back on bicycl , donkey cart and by foot , look for their home or what trace is left of them . `` i am go to my hous , even though i know that it is destroy . i am go to remov the rubbl to get a shirt out , '' moham abou diab said . israel ' s militari pull troop out of southern gaza , leav just one brigad in the area . the smell of death is in the air , resid say , with bodi still lie beneath the ruin . the scale of the devast ha shock them . `` the destruct is huge . it all need to be rebuilt . it ' s not suitabl for human be to live in - not even for anim , '' abu saif abu mustafa told the bbc . `` it ' s as if an earthquak hit the citi , '' rashad khami al - najjar from the wider khan youni region said as he survey the scene . `` the hous are not liveabl , the mosqu are not suitabl for worship , and the road and the infrastructur , even the electr , have all been complet destroy . '' anoth resid had a similar sens of horror at what he saw on hi return : `` we see total destruct everywher as if it were an earthquak or a natur catastroph . `` the hous that haven ' t been destroy are burn or loot by thiev . we are die slowli . there are no home to live in and we live like the dead . '' gaza ' s second citi wa the focu of a sustain onslaught by the isra armi from decemb , believ that hama leader and fighter had been driven there from the north and establish a new stronghold in tunnel and hospit . neighbourhood by neighbourhood , israel order palestinian to leav . the isra armi said it wa do everyth it could to protect civilian . a citi of some 400 , 000 peopl wa desert bit by bit as isra forc mount feroci bombard . almost from the moment that israel announc that it mission in khan youni wa complet and it troop had been pull out , palestinian began to move from their overcrowd shelter further south toward their citi . but mani have found that with their home render unliv , they have littl option but to tri to gather what possess are left and return to their temporari shelter . one woman , nour ayyash , said she couldn ' t reach her apart becaus the stair were gone . her brother manag to climb up and retriev some cloth for her children . anoth return resid told the bbc : `` we came to get some of our thing , we want to see if anyth wa left of our home and to take ani of our belong , like cloth for exampl . '' but some would rather stay , even if there is noth left of what wa onc their home . moham abu rizzeq lost more than hi hous , hi wife wa kill in an isra bombard after they were displac . but he told the bbc : `` our biggest request is that israel withdraw from our land - there ' s been enough kill and destruct . it ' s better for us to have a tent on the rubbl of our home than be displac and in exil . '' israel ' s militari stress a `` signific forc `` would remain in gaza after some troop left southern area on sunday . the pull - out is be interpret as tactic , rather than a sign the war may be move closer to it end . on monday isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu said israel had set a date for a plan militari oper in the southern citi of rafah , where mani of those return to khan youni had been shelter . he gave no detail . more than a million palestinian have sought shelter in rafah after flee fight in other area - although that citi too ha been hit by isra air strike . mr netanyahu said israel want complet victori over hama . `` thi victori requir entri into rafah and the elimin of the terrorist battalion there . it will happen - there is a date . '' the us ha said it won ' t support a larg - scale offens in rafah without a credibl plan to protect civilian . ceasefir talk are continu , with qatar ' s foreign ministri tell the bbc it wa cautious optimist about a new propos . hama - which say it want a perman end to the war , full withdraw of isra forc from gaza and an influx of aid as part of ani deal - ha said that it is studi the latest propos , without indic whether it leadership now feel readi to make concess on it demand . the same is true on the isra side . israel say it want hostag be held by hama to be freed in return for a temporari paus in fight . but defenc minist yoav gallant ha said he believ thi is an opportun moment to do a deal with hama . meanwhil the leader of franc , egypt and jordan jointli call for an immedi ceasefir in gaza . emmanuel macron , abdul fattah al - sisi and king abdullah also warn against an isra offens in rafah , which they said would `` onli bring more death and suffer `` . more than 33 , 000 gazan have been kill in israel ' s offens in gaza , the hama - run health ministri say , the major of them civilian . the war wa spark when hama attack southern isra border commun on 7 octob , kill 1 , 200 peopl and take more than 250 hostag . israel say that of 130 hostag still in gaza , at least 34 are thought to be dead .