the republ of ireland ha offici recognis a palestinian state - a move which the taoiseach ( irish prime minist ) ha describ as `` import and histor `` . both hama and it rival , the palestinian author , have welcom the recognit . the palestinian flag ha now been rais at leinster hous , the seat of the irish parliament . israel recal it ambassador to ireland in respons to the countri ' s plan recognit of a palestinian state and claim the move encourag terror and further instabl . norway and spain have also announc that they will recognis a palestinian state . in a statement on tuesday , the irish govern said it recognis `` palestin as a sovereign and independ state and agre to establish full diplomat relat between dublin and ramallah `` . it said an ambassador would be appoint `` along with a full embassi of ireland in ramallah `` . taoiseach simon harri said the decis wa about `` keep hope aliv `` . '' it is about believ that a two - state solut is the onli way for israel and palestin to live side by side in peac and secur , '' he said . '' we had want to recognis palestin at the end of a peac process howev we have made thi move alongsid spain and norway to keep the miracl of peac aliv . `` i again call on prime minist netanyahu of israel to listen to the world and stop the humanitarian catastroph we are see in gaza . '' khalid el - estal wa born in belfast and attend primari school in the citi . hi famili reloc to gaza when he wa age eight . hi wife and other famili member were kill in gaza last year . mr el - estal , who now live in dublin with hi children , told bbc news ni the decis to recognis a palestinian state wa a `` great step `` . '' it translat the solidar shown by the irish govern , '' he said . '' it mean a lot . '' it will encourag more countri and put pressur on israel to stop the war . '' zaid al - barghouthi , who is a vice - presid for campaign in the union for student in ireland , said he had mix feel about the move . hi parent are palestinian and he grew up in jordan , move to the republ of ireland to studi . '' i have two reaction to thi . first is my person reaction : for the most part it is a posit reaction - there is a realis that we are part of the solut to the war . but it doe feel out of place for now , '' he said . `` it is a token gestur . it doe not help the peopl who are suffer . '' then there is my profession reaction . the irish govern ha recognis a palestinian state but palestinian student are be told they can not remain here when they finish their studi . '' where do they go ? '' the ireland israel allianc is a non - profit organis base in dublin , which say it aim to `` bring clariti to public percept of issu surround the isra - palestinian conflict `` and `` ensur such issu receiv fair and imparti treatment within the irish media `` . '' today is a veri sad day for ireland - israel relat and inde for the nation of ireland , as almost eight month sinc the horror of 7 octob , '' it said in a statement . '' our polit leader have decid the reward for palestinian terror should be the recognit of a palestinian state . '' the ireland israel allianc oppos the recognit of a palestinian state as do so mani other here in ireland , includ the vast major of ireland ' s beleagu jewish commun . '' the organis ad that it wa concern about anti - semit in ireland . former irish justic minist alan shatter , who is jewish , said there had been a `` continu escal of anti - semit `` in ireland sinc 7 octob , when hama attack israel and kill about 1 , 200 peopl . he criticis the move to recognis a palestinian state . '' thi announc send the wrong messag - if you commit atroc , you will get some reward , '' he told bbc news ni . '' it is a bizarr situat . it is polit theatr and offer no assist to end the conflict . '' i have for mani year advoc for a two - state solut of palestinian and isra live side by side . '' in a statement , the embassi of israel in dublin said it wa disappoint by ireland ' s recognit of a palestinian state . it said it follow `` worri initi and statement in recent month `` . '' thi decis bring more question than answer , especi regard it time , after hama commit the worst atroc against jewish peopl sinc the holocaust , '' the statement ad . it said the move suggest to hama that `` terror pay `` and that it would jeopardis the potenti releas of isra hostag in gaza . '' unilater gestur such as thi will do noth for either palestinian or isra . we can onli resolv our differ through bilater negoti , '' the statement ad . '' just as in ireland ' s case , polit step can not be impos . '' the ambassador of palestin in ireland jilan wahba abdalmajid issu a statement thank the irish govern . '' ireland ’ s declar of recognit of our right to statehood is an import statement to the intern commun , '' she said . '' the bond between ireland and palestin are except strong `` . she ad that it gave palestinian `` hope and possibl `` . the irish ambassador to israel sonya mcguin wa summon to the isra foreign affair ministri in jerusalem and reprimand . the ambassador of spain and norway attend the same meet for the same reason . howev , it is understood a palestinian embassi - consid an upgrad from the exist mission - is to open in dublin in the come week , while dublin will send an ambassador to repres ireland to the palestinian peopl .