the chief prosecutor of the intern crimin court ( icc ) ha releas a statement on hi applic for the arrest warrant of isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu and hama ' s leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , for war crime . karim khan kc previous said there were reason ground to believ that both men bore crimin respons for war crime and crime against human from at least 7 octob 2023 . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel last year , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 35 , 456 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . you can read the icc ' s full statement below . icc prosecutor seek arrest of isra and hama leadersbodi of hostag recov from gaza , say idfhalf of gaza water site damag or destroy , bbc satellit data reveal `` today i am file applic for warrant of arrest befor pre - trial chamber i of the intern crimin court in the situat in the state of palestin . '' on the basi of evid collect and examin by my offic , i have reason ground to believ that yahya sinwar ( head of the islam resist movement ( “ hama ” ) in the gaza strip ) , moham diab ibrahim al - masri , more commonli known as deif ( command - in - chief of the militari wing of hama , known as the al - qassam brigad ) , and ismail haniyeh ( head of hama polit bureau ) bear crimin respons for the follow war crime and crime against human commit on the territori of israel and the state of palestin ( in the gaza strip ) from at least 7 octob 2023 : extermin as a crime against human , contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( b ) of the rome statut ; murder as a crime against human , contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( a ) , and as a war crime , contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( i ) ; take hostag as a war crime , contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( iii ) ; rape and other act of sexual violenc as crime against human , contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( g ) , and also as war crime pursuant to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( e ) ( vi ) in the context of captiv ; tortur as a crime against human , contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( f ) , and also as a war crime , contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( i ) , in the context of captiv ; other inhuman act as a crime against human , contrari to articl 7 ( l ) ( k ) , in the context of captiv ; cruel treatment as a war crime contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( i ) , in the context of captiv ; andoutrag upon person digniti as a war crime , contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( ii ) , in the context of captiv . `` yahya sinwar , moham diab ibrahim al - masri ( deif ) , ismail haniyeh `` my offic submit that the war crime alleg in these applic were commit in the context of an intern arm conflict between israel and palestin , and a non - intern arm conflict between israel and hama run in parallel . we submit that the crime against human charg were part of a widespread and systemat attack against the civilian popul of israel by hama and other arm group pursuant to organis polici . some of these crime , in our assess , continu to thi day . '' my offic submit there are reason ground to believ that sinwar , deif and haniyeh are crimin respons for the kill of hundr of isra civilian in attack perpetr by hama ( in particular it militari wing , the al - qassam brigad ) and other arm group on 7 octob 2023 and the take of at least 245 hostag . as part of our investig , my offic ha interview victim and survivor , includ former hostag and eyewit from six major attack locat : kfar aza ; holit ; the locat of the supernova music festiv ; be ’ eri ; nir oz ; and nahal oz . the investig also reli on evid such as cctv footag , authent audio , photo and video materi , statement by hama member includ the alleg perpetr name abov , and expert evid . '' it is the view of my offic that these individu plan and instig the commiss of crime on 7 octob 2023 , and have through their own action , includ person visit to hostag shortli after their kidnap , acknowledg their respons for those crime . we submit that these crime could not have been commit without their action . they are charg both as co - perpetr and as superior pursuant to articl 25 and 28 of the rome statut . '' dure my own visit to kibbutz be ’ eri and kibbutz kfar aza , as well as to the site of supernova music festiv in re ’ im , i saw the devast scene of these attack and the profound impact of the unconscion crime charg in the applic file today . speak with survivor , i heard how the love within a famili , the deepest bond between a parent and a child , were contort to inflict unfathom pain through calcul cruelti and extrem callous . these act demand account . '' my offic also submit there are reason ground to believ that hostag taken from israel have been kept in inhuman condit , and that some have been subject to sexual violenc , includ rape , while be held in captiv . we have reach that conclus base on medic record , contemporan video and documentari evid , and interview with victim and survivor . my offic also continu to investig report of sexual violenc commit on 7 octob . '' i wish to express my gratitud to the survivor , and the famili of victim of the 7 octob attack , for their courag in come forward to provid their account to my offic . we remain focus on further deepen our investig of all crime commit as part of these attack and will continu to work with all partner to ensur that justic is deliv . '' i again reiter my call for the immedi releas of all hostag taken from israel and for their safe return to their famili . thi is a fundament requir of intern humanitarian law . '' `` benjamin netanyahu , yoav gallant `` on the basi of evid collect and examin by my offic , i have reason ground to believ that benjamin netanyahu , the prime minist of israel , and yoav gallant , the minist of defenc of israel , bear crimin respons for the follow war crime and crime against human commit on the territori of the state of palestin ( in the gaza strip ) from at least 8 octob 2023 : starvat of civilian as a method of warfar as a war crime contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( b ) ( xxv ) of the statut ; wil caus great suffer , or seriou injuri to bodi or health contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( iii ) , or cruel treatment as a war crime contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( i ) ; wil kill contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( a ) ( i ) , or murder as a war crime contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( c ) ( i ) ; intent direct attack against a civilian popul as a war crime contrari to articl 8 ( 2 ) ( b ) ( i ) , or 8 ( 2 ) ( e ) ( i ) ; extermin and / or murder contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( b ) and 7 ( 1 ) ( a ) , includ in the context of death caus by starvat , as a crime against human ; persecut as a crime against human contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( h ) ; other inhuman act as crime against human contrari to articl 7 ( 1 ) ( k ) . '' my offic submit that the war crime alleg in these applic were commit in the context of an intern arm conflict between israel and palestin , and a non - intern arm conflict between israel and hama ( togeth with other palestinian arm group ) run in parallel . we submit that the crime against human charg were commit as part of a widespread and systemat attack against the palestinian civilian popul pursuant to state polici . these crime , in our assess , continu to thi day . '' my offic submit that the evid we have collect , includ interview with survivor and eyewit , authent video , photo and audio materi , satellit imageri and statement from the alleg perpetr group , show that israel ha intent and systemat depriv the civilian popul in all part of gaza of object indispens to human surviv . '' thi occur through the imposit of a total sieg over gaza that involv complet close the three border cross point , rafah , kerem shalom and erez , from 8 octob 2023 for extend period and then by arbitrarili restrict the transfer of essenti suppli – includ food and medicin – through the border cross after they were reopen . the sieg also includ cut off cross - border water pipelin from israel to gaza – gazan ’ princip sourc of clean water – for a prolong period begin 9 octob 2023 , and cut off and hinder electr suppli from at least 8 octob 2023 until today . thi took place alongsid other attack on civilian , includ those queu for food ; obstruct of aid deliveri by humanitarian agenc ; and attack on and kill of aid worker , which forc mani agenc to ceas or limit their oper in gaza . '' my offic submit that these act were commit as part of a common plan to use starvat as a method of war and other act of violenc against the gazan civilian popul as a mean to ( i ) elimin hama ; ( ii ) secur the return of the hostag which hama ha abduct , and ( iii ) collect punish the civilian popul of gaza , whom they perceiv as a threat to israel . '' the effect of the use of starvat as a method of warfar , togeth with other attack and collect punish against the civilian popul of gaza are acut , visibl and wide known , and have been confirm by multipl wit interview by my offic , includ local and intern medic doctor . they includ malnutrit , dehydr , profound suffer and an increas number of death among the palestinian popul , includ babi , other children , and women . '' famin is present in some area of gaza and is immin in other area . as un secretari - gener antónio guterr warn more than two month ago , “ 1 . 1 million peopl in gaza are face catastroph hunger – the highest number of peopl ever record – anywher , anytim ” as a result of an “ entir man - made disast ” . today , my offic seek to charg two of those most respons , netanyahu and gallant , both as co - perpetr and as superior pursuant to articl 25 and 28 of the rome statut . '' israel , like all state , ha a right to take action to defend it popul . that right , howev , doe not absolv israel or ani state of it oblig to compli with intern humanitarian law . notwithstand ani militari goal they may have , the mean israel chose to achiev them in gaza – name , intent caus death , starvat , great suffer , and seriou injuri to bodi or health of the civilian popul – are crimin . '' sinc last year , in ramallah , in cairo , in israel and in rafah , i have consist emphasis that intern humanitarian law demand that israel take urgent action to immedi allow access to humanitarian aid in gaza at scale . i specif underlin that starvat as a method of war and the denial of humanitarian relief constitut rome statut offenc . i could not have been clearer . '' as i also repeatedli underlin in my public statement , those who do not compli with the law should not complain later when my offic take action . that day ha come . '' `` in present these applic for arrest warrant , my offic is act pursuant to it mandat under the rome statut . on 5 februari 2021 , pre - trial chamber i decid that the court can exercis it crimin jurisdict in the situat in the state of palestin and that the territori scope of thi jurisdict extend to gaza and the west bank , includ east jerusalem . thi mandat is ongo and includ the escal of hostil and violenc sinc 7 octob 2023 . my offic also ha jurisdict over crime commit by nation of state parti and by the nation of non - state parti on the territori of a state parti . '' today ’ s applic are the outcom of an independ and imparti investig by my offic . guid by our oblig to investig incrimin and exoner evid equal , my offic ha work painstakingli to separ claim from fact and to soberli present conclus base on evid to the pre - trial chamber . '' as an addit safeguard , i have also been grate for the advic of a panel of expert in intern law , an imparti group i conven to support the evid review and legal analysi in relat to these arrest warrant applic . the panel is compos of expert of immens stand in intern humanitarian law and intern crimin law , includ sir adrian fulford pc , former lord justic of appeal and former intern crimin court judg ; baro helena kennedi kc , presid of the intern bar associ ’ s human right institut ; elizabeth wilmshurst cmg kc , former deputi legal advis at the uk foreign and commonwealth offic ; danni friedman kc ; and two of my special advis – amal clooney and hi excel judg theodor meron cmg . thi independ expert analysi ha support and strengthen the applic file today by my offic . i have also been grate for the contribut of a number of my other special advis to thi review , particularli adama dieng and professor kevin jon heller . '' today we onc again underlin that intern law and the law of arm conflict appli to all . no foot soldier , no command , no civilian leader – no one – can act with impun . noth can justifi wil depriv human be , includ so mani women and children , the basic necess requir for life . noth can justifi the take of hostag or the target of civilian . '' the independ judg of the intern crimin court are the sole arbit as to whether the necessari standard for the issuanc of warrant of arrest ha been met . should they grant my applic and issu the request warrant , i will then work close with the registrar in all effort to apprehend the name individu . i count on all state parti to the rome statut to take these applic and the subsequ judici decis with the same serious they have shown in other situat , meet their oblig under the statut . i also stand readi to work with non - state parti in our common pursuit of account . '' it is critic in thi moment that my offic and all part of the court , includ it independ judg , are permit to conduct their work with full independ and imparti . i insist that all attempt to imped , intimid or improperli influenc the offici of thi court must ceas immedi . my offic will not hesit to act pursuant to articl 70 of the rome statut if such conduct continu . `` i remain deepli concern about ongo alleg and emerg evid of intern crime occur in israel , gaza and the west bank . our investig continu . my offic is advanc multipl and interconnect addit line of inquiri , includ concern report of sexual violenc dure the 7 octob attack , and in relat to the larg - scale bomb that ha caus and continu to caus so mani civilian death , injuri , and suffer in gaza . i encourag those with relev inform to contact my offic and to submit inform via otp link . '' my offic will not hesit to submit further applic for warrant of arrest if and when we consid that the threshold of a realist prospect of convict ha been met . i renew my call for all parti in the current conflict to compli with the law now . '' i also wish to emphasis that the principl of complementar , which is at the heart of the rome statut , will continu to be assess by my offic as we take action in relat to the abov - list alleg crime and alleg perpetr and move forward with other line of inquiri . complementar , howev , requir a deferr to nation author onli when they engag in independ and imparti judici process that do not shield suspect and are not a sham . it requir thorough investig at all level address the polici and action underli these applic . '' let us today be clear on one core issu : if we do not demonstr our willing to appli the law equal , if it is seen as be appli select , we will be creat the condit for it collaps . in do so , we will be loosen the remain bond that hold us togeth , the stabilis connect between all commun and individu , the safeti net to which all victim look in time of suffer . thi is the true risk we face in thi moment . '' now , more than ever , we must collect demonstr that intern humanitarian law , the foundat baselin for human conduct dure conflict , appli to all individu and appli equal across the situat address by my offic and the court . thi is how we will prove , tangibl , that the live of all human be have equal valu . ''