the un say it is hope a newli open cross from israel to gaza will lead to a sustain flow of aid into the north of the territori . scott anderson , deputi head of the palestinian refuge agenc , told the bbc he hope the entri of 36 flour truck on sunday wa a posit sign . the flow of humanitarian aid into gaza ha been hamper by the war , with israel and aid group trade blame . israel open the western erez cross point on sunday . speak to bbc radio 4 ' s today programm , mr anderson said the refuge agenc unrwa hope that a constant flow of aid would be establish through the new cross . `` we are veri much hope it is sustain as it would allow us a way to get food and other need suppli to the popul that is in the north of the wadi gaza , '' he said , refer to a riverb which span the territori just south of gaza citi . food , water and other basic suppli are most scarc in the north , where israel ' s oper against hama began after the group ' s deadli attack on 7 octob , and where fight ha recent resum . last week , the head of the un ' s world food programm said displac palestinian there were experienc a `` full - blown famin `` . israel ha long maintain that it is commit to facilit deliveri of humanitarian aid into and within gaza and ha accus hama of steal the aid design for civilian . in the south , where most palestinian have sought refug , the aid situat is worsen . despit warn from intern alli , last week israel instruct palestinian shelter in the east of rafah to evacu so that it could begin what it call a `` limit `` oper to elimin hama from the area . israel then drove tank to the rafah cross , which had been the main entri point of aid via egypt , and shut it down on the palestinian side . the other point of entri in the south , kerem shalom , wa close prior to that after four isra soldier were kill by rocket launch from rafah by hama , accord to the isra militari . israel say the cross ha sinc reopen , but it now requir aid convoy to navig an `` activ combat zone `` , mr anderson said . he said the un need a `` fix corridor `` of access to kerem shalom to be establish , which would need the agreement of both hama and israel . `` we need all the parti to the conflict to agre to make sure the truck driver and the un staff undertak thi oper are safe , '' he said . part of the un ' s oper in gaza throughout the war ha been to survey displac palestinian who are on the move , and track those who say they do not have access to food and water . unrwa is current track some 370 , 000 palestinian in gaza , mr anderson said . hundr of thousand of palestinian have heed israel ' s warn to evacu eastern rafah and have begun their journey to what israel ha call an `` expand humanitarian zone `` . thi includ al - mawasi , a coastal area larg made up of sand dune , and part of khan youni , which onli recent wa the focu of israel ' s oper in gaza . mr anderson said neither area had the infrastructur to support the mass seek shelter . in al - mawasi , `` everyth peopl have access to , we have to truck in ... which includ food , water , move solid wast , so it ' s veri much a makeshift camp , '' he said . `` peopl who are displac to khan youni , it ' s veri similar – there wa infrastructur there , but that is still recov from the isra oper that took place a few month ago . '' israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag , accord to isra author . more than 35 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri .