israel ' s govern ha advanc plan for more than 3 , 400 new home in settlement in the occupi west bank . about 70 % of the home will be built in maal adumim , east of jerusalem , with the rest in nearbi kedar and efrat , south of bethlehem . a minist ha said the construct is a respons to a deadli palestinian attack near maal adumim two week ago . the palestinian author condemn the plan , which are reportedli the first to be approv sinc june . israel ha built about 160 settlement hous some 700 , 000 jew sinc it occupi the west bank and east jerusalem - land the palestinian want as part of a futur state - in the 1967 middl east war . the vast major of the intern commun consid the settlement illeg under intern law , although israel disput thi . palestinian gunmen kill isra man in west bankuk sanction isra settler accus of violenc israel ' s haaretz newspap said the higher plan committe of the civil administr - the bodi that implement isra govern polici in the west bank - had advanc plan for the develop of 3 , 476 settler home on wednesday - with 2 , 452 in maal adumim , 694 in efrat and 330 in kedar . financ minist bezalel smotrich , a far - right politician who overse the civil administr , said follow the meet that a total of 18 , 515 home in west bank settlement had now been approv over the past year . '' the enemi tri to harm and weaken us but we will continu to build and be built up in thi land , '' he wrote on x , extern , formerli twitter . howev , the isra anti - settlement watchdog peac now warn : `` instead of build a futur of hope , peac , and secur , the isra govern is pave the way for our destruct . '' it said the project would have a neg impact on the possibl of a two - state solut to the isra - palestinian conflict . the foreign ministri of the west bank - base palestinian author condemn both the new plan and mr smotrich ' s remark . '' settlement is void and illegitim from it foundat , repres an explicit call for the continu of the spiral of violenc and war , '' a statement said . mr smotrich put forward the plan on 22 februari , hour after three palestinian gunmen open fire on car on a road near maal adumim , kill one isra and wound sever other . he said the attack `` must have a determin secur respons but also a settlement respons `` . us secretari of state antoni blinken express disappoint with the decis the follow day and surpris mani observ by declar that the us view settlement as illeg - revert to a posit that had been overturn by former presid donald trump ' s administr in 2019 . '' it ' s been longstand us polici under republican and democrat administr alik that new settlement are counterproduct to reach an endur peac , '' he told report in argentina . '' they ' re also inconsist with intern law . our administr maintain a firm opposit to settlement expans . and in our judgement , thi onli weaken - it doesn ' t strengthen - israel ' s secur . '' a peac now report said in januari that there had been an `` unpreced surg in settlement activ `` across the west bank sinc the start of the war in the gaza strip , trigger by hama ' s deadli attack in israel on 7 octob . the west bank ha also experienc a spike in violenc over the same period . the un say at least 413 palestinian - member of arm group , attack and civilian - have been kill in conflict - relat incid in the west bank , includ east jerusalem , or in israel sinc octob . fifteen isra , includ four secur forc personnel , have also been kill .