isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha vow to continu the war against hama amid intern condemn of an air strike that kill score of palestinian in rafah on sunday . at least 45 peopl were kill , accord to the hama - run health ministri , while hundr more were treat for sever burn , fractur and shrapnel wound . mr netanyahu said the strike wa a “ tragic mishap ” but ad : “ i don ’ t intend to end the war befor everi goal ha been achiev . ” he said it wa vital that israel took `` everi precaut possibl `` to protect civilian , and insist that the israel defens forc ( idf ) were use their `` best effort not to harm those uninvolv `` in the conflict . the un secur council will hold an emerg meet on tuesday , at algeria ' s request , to discuss the rafah strike . in a statement on monday , un secretari gener antónio guterr said the strike had `` kill score of innoc civilian who were onli seek shelter from thi deadli conflict `` . '' there is no safe place in gaza . thi horror must stop , '' he said . mr netanyahu , who wa speak in the isra parliament , wa interrupt by occasion heckl from famili member of hostag taken by hama dure the 7 octob attack , some of whom have been critic of him for fail to strike a deal for the return of their love one . '' in rafah we alreadi evacu about one million non - combat resid and despit our utmost effort not to harm non - combat , someth unfortun went tragic wrong , '' he persist . '' we are investig the incid and will reach conclus becaus thi is our polici . '' intern organis have line up to condemn the strike , with the eu insist that israel respect a rule by the intern court of justic ( icj ) last week to halt strike on rafah . the bloc ' s top diplomat , josep borrel , call sunday ' s strike `` horrifi `` . despit the icj rule , israel ha pledg to continu with the invas of rafah , with offici insist the rule left room for the attack to compli with intern law . the un ' s human right chief , volker turk , said the attack suggest that there had been `` no appar chang in the method and mean of warfar use by israel that have alreadi led to so mani civilian death `` . israel launch sunday ' s rafah attack hour after hama ' s first missil attack on tel aviv in sever month . idf offici said the attack on rafah had kill two senior hama command , and that it wa investig the death of civilian in the area . but the palestinian red crescent said the air strike had target tent for displac peopl near a un facil in tal al - sultan , about 2km ( 1 . 2 mile ) north - west of the centr of rafah . video from the scene in the tal al - sultan area on sunday night show a larg explos and intens fire burn . graphic footag show a number of structur ablaz next to a banner say “ kuwaiti peac camp ' 1 ' ” , as well as first respond and bystand carri sever bodi . médecin san frontièr ( msf ) said on monday that one of it facil had receiv at least 28 dead peopl , includ women and children , follow the strike . it said it had treat anoth 180 wound palestinian , with most suffer from seriou shrapnel wound , fractur , traumat injuri and burn . msf reject isra report that the strike had been precis , say the `` attack on a popul camp in a so - call ‘ safe zone ’ in rafah show the complet disregard for the live of civilian in gaza `` . the us call the imag `` heartbreak `` but insist israel had a right to defend itself . '' israel ha a right to go after hama , and we understand thi strike kill two senior hama terrorist who are respons for attack against isra civilian , '' a white hous nation secur spokesperson said . but they conced that `` israel must take everi precaut possibl to protect civilian `` . isra offici had spent much of monday scrambl to find out what went wrong in rafah . israel is under pressur to explain how a “ precis strike ” use specialis munit with “ reduc warhead ” result in a firestorm which kill dozen and injur score . top militari offici , includ maj gen yifat tomer yerushalmi , the idf ’ s advoc gener , have promis a thorough investig and a more detail explan is expect . howev , whether thi incid mark a turn point in the campaign is anoth matter . mr netanyahu said he remain commit to what he call “ total victori ” in rafah , so there is no sign that sunday ' s disast will chang hi mind . israel ' s militari campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other back to gaza as hostag . more than 36 , 000 palestinian have been kill in the war sinc then , accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri .