one thousand mile east of gaza , larg block of aid are be load on to a us militari transport plane , it crew silhouet by the morn sun glanc over the desert landscap around qatar ' s al - udeid airbas . they push 80 crate into the plane ' s cavern interior , each canva - wrap block strap to a cardboard pallet and top with a parachut . feed gaza is now a complex , riski , multi - nation oper . the raf carri out it first two aid flight thi week . franc , germani , jordan , egypt and the uae have also been take part . thi wa the 18th mission flown by us forc . drop 40 , 000 readi - prepar meal into the tini , besieg war - zone requir them to make a six - hour round trip from doha . it is more expens and less effici than other way of deliv aid and it is also harder to control . earlier thi week , 12 peopl are thought to have drown while tri to retriev aid parcel that fell into the sea . anoth six were reportedli crush in the stamped to reach it . `` we ' re veri awar of all the news , and we ' re tri to limit casualti , '' said maj boon , the mission command , stand beneath a larg american flag at the entranc to the cockpit . `` [ we ' re do ] liter everyth we can . we use a chute that fall at a slower rate to give gazan more time to see the parachut and get out of the way . `` we also have asset overhead that clear the drop zone , so we won ' t drop if there ' s ani group of peopl there . '' he said they map the rout care , aim to land the aid in safer , open space along the gaza coast , but drop the parcel over the sea so that crate with malfunct parachut would drop into the water , rather than on build or peopl . none of that is easi . a heavi militari cargo plane can be heard for mile around , mean crowd quickli gather to follow it . desper lead mani to take enorm risk to retriev the aid - and mani come away with noth . hama ha reportedli demand a halt to air drop as casualti have grown , call them `` useless `` and a `` real danger to the live of hungri civilian `` . the risk are increas by the lack of ani organis distribut of the aid onc it hit the ground . as we swing down low over gaza , the plane ramp open to reveal the outskirt of the strip ' s devast capit citi - it remain tower block jut up like lone nake teeth . american food parcel are be target at place where american - made weapon have alreadi made their mark . the road beneath us along the coast were busi with peopl and vehicl , move quickli in the same direct , appar race the plane . we watch as the parachut slip quickli out , shrink to speck in second . mani hung over the water - but two , their parachut stall , crash straight into the sea . `` it ' s not perfect , '' said us air forc spokesman maj ryan decamp when ask whether aid drop were the best approach to gaza ' s hunger crisi . `` we know there ' s upward of two million peopl who need food on the ground - innoc civilian who did not ask for thi conflict - and we ' re drop meal in the ten of thousand . `` doe it feel like a drop in the bucket ? mayb a littl bit - but if you ' re a famili on the ground who got some of thi aid , it can be a lifesav . '' on the ground in gaza , a journalist work with the bbc watch the us parachut fall . he count 11 air drop that day . some resid in northern area reportedli spend their day watch the sky for aid plane . `` we have tri twice thi morn , but in vain , '' said anoth gaza citi resid , ahm tafesh . `` if we can at least get a can of bean or hummu to support ourselv , we hope we will eat today . hunger ha consum most peopl , they have no energi anymor . '' a recent global assess warn of immin famin in gaza , prompt the un ' s top court thi week to order israel to enabl an immedi `` unhind `` flow of aid . `` if peopl are starv and we ' re give them food , that ' s the best we can do right now , '' said maj boon . `` i know other peopl are tri [ approach ] that take more time . my team of c17 were notifi and out here within 36 hour and do everyth in our potenti to get food to peopl who need it . '' israel ha reject both the famin assess and the un court order , say alleg that it is block aid are `` wholli unfound `` . it ha accus hama of steal aid . but humanitarian aid for gaza is one of the issu divid the us and israel over thi war at the moment . the us is build a temporari pier in gaza to get more aid in quickli . israel ' s busiest cargo port , 48km ( 30 mile ) from gaza citi , ha not been open for aid . us presid joe biden ha been press israel ' s prime minist hard to expand access for land convoy - still the best way of get larg amount of aid in quickli . scene of sick , malnourish children die in gazan hospit are shift elector polit in america , but he ha so far been unwil to use us arm suppli as leverag to drive hi demand home . aid flight are multipli among arab and western nation . riski and ineffici , they drop small amount of food into a desper popul . they are an eye - catch last resort . their valu is measur in two simpl question : how much do they eas the pressur on gaza ' s popul and how much do they eas the pressur on govern elsewher ?