four hostag have been rescu by the isra militari from central gaza , in an oper that wa week in the plan . for isra it brought celebr and relief . for palestinian it brought more suffer , with hospit say dozen of peopl - includ children - were kill in the raid on the dens popul nuseirat camp . dub “ seed of summer ” , the raid wa unusu carri out in the daytim – which the israel defens forc say allow it a better element of surpris . the mid - morn time meant the street were busi with peopl shop at a nearbi market . it also meant greater risk to israel ’ s special forc , not onli get in , but especi get out . one special forc offic wa wound and die in hospit , israel polic said . “ it wa on a scale like entebb , ” accord to the idf ’ s chief spokesperson rear admir daniel hagari referenc israel ' s rescu of 100 hostag in uganda in 1976 . act on intellig , and after cross into gaza from israel , he said specialist commando simultan raid two residenti apart in nuseirat where the hostag were be held . in one apart wa 26 - year - old hostag noa argamani . in the other were 41 - year - old shlomi ziv , 27 - year - old andrey kozlov and almog meir jan , 22 . mr hagari said they were not in cage but in lock room surround by guard . he said isra commando , have forc their way in , seiz the hostag wrap themselv around them to provid protect shield befor bundl them into militari vehicl outsid . as they left he said they face fierc resist from palestinian fighter . mr hagari said israel ’ s militari had plan the raid in great detail , even build mock - up of the two apart to train in . the us also provid intellig support to israel for the oper , accord to the bbc ' s partner cb news which cite two us offici . mobil phone video from the scene show peopl dive for cover as missil whistl in and gunfir rang out . later footag show bodi strewn in the street . the raid clearli involv massiv forc . doctor at the two hospit in central gaza said they had count more than 70 bodi . mr hagari estim less than a hundr , while the hama media offic said more than 200 had been kill . the bbc ha been unabl to verifi the number of casualti . “ i have gather the bodi part of my child , my dear child ” nora abu khame , shelter in nuseirat , told the bbc as she crumpl in tear . “ my other child is between life and death . even my husband and my mother in law , our whole famili is destroy . thi is a genocid . ” ten - year - old areej al zahdneh , speak at a nearbi hospit , told us there were airstrik , tank and shoot . “ we couldn ’ t breath . my sister reemaz wa hit by shrapnel in her head and my five year old sister yara wa also hit my shrapnel . ”