oil price fell on monday after iran ' s repris attack on israel over the weekend . brent crude - a key benchmark for oil price intern - wa lower but still trade close to $ 90 a barrel . price had alreadi risen in expect of action by iran , with brent crude near a six - month high last week . analyst said the market would be look to see how the conflict could affect global suppli chain . oil price fluctuat can caus rippl effect across the world due to countri be heavili reliant on the commod , which is use to produc fuel such as petrol and diesel . fuel and energi price have been a major driver behind the higher cost of live worldwid in the past coupl of year . when russia invad ukrain in 2022 , oil price soar to $ 120 a barrel over suppli fear as western nation impos sanction on russia , one of the world ' s major oil export . the jump led to not onli higher price at the pump , but also countless other good as busi adjust their price to cover higher cost . analyst said israel ' s reaction to the attack would be key for global market in the day and week ahead . isra defenc minist yoav gallant ha said the confront with iran is `` not over yet `` . hi comment came after iran launch drone and missil toward israel at the weekend after vow retali for an attack on it consul in the syrian capit damascu on 1 april . israel ha not said it carri out the consul strike , but is wide believ to have been behind it . at the end of last week , the price of brent crude touch $ 92 . 18 a barrel , the highest sinc octob , but on monday it fell back to around $ 89 . 50 . the price of gold - often seen as a safe invest at time of uncertainti - also drop . after hit a record high of $ 2 , 431 . 29 an ounc on friday , gold fell back to $ 2 , 332 . 97 on monday . energi analyst vandana hari said the fall in the price of oil meant `` clearli , the oil market doe not see the need to factor in ani addit suppli threat at thi point `` . but peter mcguir from trade platform xm . com said he expect the energi market to be volatil and predict that oil price would surg if israel respond strongli to iran ' s move . howev , april laruss , head of invest at insight invest , said it wa like that market would `` trade sideway until we have more inform `` . `` unfortun thi situat in the middl east ha been go on for some time and the longer you have a bit of geo - polit tension go on the more market wait to see and there isn ' t sort of a panic reaction as the first move , '' she told the bbc ' s today programm . share market in the asia - pacif region slip on monday as investor weigh the impact of the attack . the uk ' s ftse 100 share index also fell margin . russ mould , invest director at invest firm aj bell , said the market had `` start the week with rel calm `` . howev , he said there wa a `` continu nervous among investor `` . `` the situat remain fraught and , beyond the geopolit and humanitarian implic , a more widespread conflict in the middl east could see energi price surg and unpick central bank ' care effort to bring down inflat , '' he ad . iran is the seventh largest oil produc in the world , accord to the us energi inform administr , and the third - largest member of the opec oil produc ' cartel . analyst say that a key issu for the oil price go forward is whether ship through the strait of hormuz will be affect . the strait - which is between oman and iran - is a crucial ship rout , as about 20 % of the world ' s total oil suppli pass through it . opec member saudi arabia , iran , the uae , kuwait and iraq send most of the oil they export through the strait . on saturday , iran seiz a commerci ship with link to israel as it pass through the strait of hormuz .