an iranian teenag wa sexual assault and kill by three men work for iran ' s secur forc , a leak document understood to have been written by those forc say . it ha let us map what happen to 16 - year - old nika shakarami who vanish from an anti - regim protest in 2022 . her bodi wa found nine day later . the govern claim she kill herself . we put the report ' s alleg to iran ' s govern and it revolutionari guard . they did not respond . mark `` highli confidenti `` , the report summaris a hear on nika ' s case held by the islam revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) - the secur forc that defend the countri ' s islam establish . it includ what it say are the name of her killer and the senior command who tri to hide the truth . it contain disturb detail of event in the back of an undercov van in which secur forc were restrain nika . these includ : there are numer fake iranian offici document in circul , so the bbc spent month check everi detail with multipl sourc . our extens investig indic the paper we obtain do chronicl the teenag ' s last movement . nika shakarami ' s disappear and death were wide report , and her pictur ha becom synonym with the fight by women in iran for greater freedom . as street protest spread across iran in the autumn of 2022 , her name wa shout by crowd furiou at the countri ' s strict rule on the compulsori veil [ hijab ] . the woman , life , freedom movement had been spark just day earlier by the death of a 22 - year - old woman , mahsa amini . she die from injuri sustain in polic custodi accord to a un fact - find mission after be accus of not wear her hijab properli . in nika ' s case , her famili found her bodi in a mortuari more than a week after she disappear from a protest . but iran ' s author deni nika ' s death wa connect to the demonstr and , after conduct their own investig , said that she had die by suicid . just befor she vanish , nika wa film on the even of 20 septemb near laleh park in central tehran , stand on a dumpster set fire to hijab . other around her chant `` death to the dictat `` - refer to iran ' s suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei . what she could not have known at the time is that she wa be watch , as the classifi report make clear . address to the irgc ' s command - in - chief , it say it is base on extens talk with it team that polic that protest . monitor the demonstr were sever undercov secur unit , the document ' s account begin . it say one of these - team 12 - suspect the teenag `` of leadership , due to her unconvent behaviour and repeat call with her mobil phone `` . the team sent one of it oper into the crowd , pose as a protest , to confirm nika wa inde one of the demonstr ' s leader . then , accord to the report , he call in hi team to arrest her . but she fled . her aunt had previous told bbc persian that nika rang a friend that night to say she wa be chase by secur forc . almost an hour pass befor she wa spot again , say the report , when she wa detain and put in the team ' s vehicl - an unmark freezer van . nika wa in the rear compart with three team 12 member - arash kalhor , sadegh monjazi , and behrooz sadeghi . their team leader morteza jalil wa up front with the driver . the group then attempt to find somewher to take her , the report say . they tri a temporari polic camp nearbi but were turn away becaus it wa overcrowd . so they continu to a detent centr , a 35 - minut drive away , whose command initi agre to admit nika . but then he chang hi mind . `` the accus [ nika ] wa constantli swear and chant , '' he told investig for the report . `` at that time , there were 14 other femal detaine at the station and my percept wa that she could agit the other . `` i wa worri she would caus a riot `` . morteza jalil onc again contact hi irgc hq for advic , say the report , and wa told to head to tehran ' s notori evin prison . en rout , he said he began to hear crash nois behind him come from the pitch - dark rear compart of the van . we know what he wa hear , from the testimoni outlin in the document from the men guard nika in the back . one of them , behrooz sadeghi , said as soon as she had been put back into the van after be reject by the detent centr , nika had start to swear and shout . `` arash kalhor gag her mouth with hi sock but she start struggl . then sadegh [ monjazi ] laid her on the chest freezer and sat on her . the situat calm , '' he told investig . `` i don ' t know what happen , but after a few minut she start swear . i couldn ' t see anyth , i could onli hear fight and bash . '' but arash kalhor gave further chill detail . he say he briefli turn on hi phone torch and saw sadegh monjazi `` [ ha ] put hi hand insid her trouser `` . arash kalhor said after that they lost control . `` he doesn ' t knowâ €¦ who [ wa do it ] , but he could hearâ €¦ the baton hit the accus [ nika ] ... ' i start to kick and punch but realli didn ' t know if i wa hit our guy or the accus . ' '' but sadegh monjazi contradict arash kalhor ' s statement , which he said wa motiv by profession jealousi . he deni put hi hand in her trouser - but said he could not deni that he becam `` arous `` while sit on her and touch nika ' s buttock . he said thi provok nika - despit the fact her hand were tie behind her back - to scratch him and jolt so that he fell over . `` she kick at my face , so i had to defend myself . '' from the van ' s cabin , morteza jalil order the driver to pull over . he open the rear door to discov nika ' s lifeless bodi . he said he clean the blood from her face and head - `` which were not in a good condit `` . thi echo the state in which nika ' s mother say she eventu found her daughter in the mortuari , and nika ' s death certif - obtain by bbc persian in octob 2022 - which state she wa kill by `` multipl injuri caus by blow with a hard object `` . team leader morteza jalil admit he didn ' t tri to find out what had happen . `` i wa onli think about how to transfer her and didn ' t ask ani question of anyon . i onli ask : ' is she breath ? ' i think it wa behrooz sadeghi who answer , ' no , she is dead ' . '' with a kill on hi hand , jalil call the irgc ' s hq for a third time . nika ' s last breath bbc eye investig a shock report , written by the islam revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) , show how nika shakarami wa hunt down , sexual assault and bludgeon to death . watch now on bbc iplay ( uk onli ) or on the bbc world servic youtub channel ( outsid uk ) on thi occas , he spoke to a more senior offic , codenam `` naeem 16 `` . `` we alreadi had death in our station , and i didn ' t want the number to rise to 20 , '' naeem 16 told the investig . `` bring her to the base wouldn ' t have solv ani problem . '' he told jalil to simpli `` dump her on the street `` . jalil said they left nika ' s bodi in a quiet street under tehran ' s yadegar - e - emam highway . the report conclud that a sexual assault caus the fight in the rear compart of the van , and that strike from team 12 had caus nika ' s death . `` three baton and three taser were all use . it is not clear which one of the blow wa the fatal one , '' it say . the report contradict the govern ' s narr of what happen to nika . nearli a month after her funer , state televis broadcast the result of the offici investig , which said nika had jump to her death from a build . it show cctv of a person it claim wa nika enter an apart block , but nika ' s mother told bbc persian in a phone interview that she could not `` under ani circumst , confirm that person is nika `` . `` we all know that they are lie , '' nasrin shakarami later told a bbc documentari , discuss author ' claim about the death of protest . the bbc eye investig wa not just concern with the content of the report , but whether it could be trust as an artefact . sometim , what appear to be offici iranian document and other materi circul on the internet are found to have been fake . most of these counterfeit document , howev , are easi to spot becaus they clearli diverg from offici format - show erron space and letter head , or contain signific grammat or spell error . they might also includ the wrong offici slogan or logo for the year they purport to origin from , or an anachronist titl for a govern agenc or depart , for exampl . anoth indic is languag that doe not match the veri specif style that tend to be use by iranian offici bodi . the document our investig centr on contain a few such inconsist . for instanc , the `` naja `` polic forc quot in the report wa known as `` faraja `` at the time . therefor , to further test the document ' s verac , we gave it to a former iranian intellig offic who ha seen hundr of legitim one . he rang the irgc archiv - use an offici code issu each day to senior intellig offic in iran - to check if the case file thi report wa allegedli part of realli exist and what it wa about . he receiv confirm that it did , and that the report ' s number show it wa part of a 322 - page case file on anti - govern protest in 2022 . while we can never be 100 % certain , thi gave us confid that it is genuin . hi uniqu access to the irgc also help us iron out anoth mysteri - the ident of `` naeem 16 `` , the man who told the team to dump nika ' s bodi . the former intellig offic did thi by make anoth call - thi time to someon insid iran ' s militari apparatu . he wa told naeem 16 is the call sign for a captain mohammad zamani , serv in the irgc . that name is list as one of the attende at the five - hour hear into nika ' s death that the report summaris . we put the alleg to the irgc and the iranian govern . they did not respond . the men respons for nika ' s death were not punish , so far as we know . a clue as to whi that might be the case can be found in the document itself . all of team 12 - who were at the hear - are list in the report and to the right of their name is the group to which they belong : `` hezbollah `` . thi refer to an iranian paramilitari group , hezbollah , unrel to the lebanes group of the same name . it member are use by the irgc but sometim oper outsid it jurisdict , as the report seem to acknowledg : `` sinc the abov person belong to the forc of hezbollah , follow up thi case beyond obtain the necessari commit and secur guarante ha not been possibl , '' it say . irgc offic naeem 16 , on the other hand , wa given a written reprimand , it add . as mani as 551 protest were kill by secur forc dure iran ' s woman , life , freedom movement , most of them by gunfir , accord to the un ' s fact - find mission . the protest subsid after a few month due to the bloodi crackdown by secur forc . there follow a lull in activ by iran ' s moral polic , but a new crackdown on breach of the islam dress code began earlier thi month . among those to have been arrest is nika ' s elder sister , aida ..