more than a million palestinian - almost half of the total popul of gaza - have been displac from the south of the territori over the past month , sharpli worsen the alreadi dire humanitarian situat , accord to the un . the isra militari began a ground oper in the southern citi of rafah on 6 may follow seven month of war which saw mani palestinian flee to rafah to escap fight and bombard elsewher . israel say take control of rafah and elimin the hama battalion there is crucial to achiev it war aim . it told palestinian in rafah to move to sandi coastal area or the citi of khan youni , which is larg in ruin . now the un is warn that the movement of such a larg number of peopl in such a short timefram alongsid a sharp fall in aid deliveri is have deadli consequ . '' peopl are die everi singl day ... the vast major accord to report are women and children . mani of them are die unnecessarili due to lack of medic care . children are die due to malnutrit and dehydr , '' juliett touma , spokeswoman for the un agenc for palestinian refuge unrwa , told bbc arab . on 6 may isra militari spokesman avichay adrae instruct palestinian in eastern rafah to evacu to an “ expand humanitarian zone ” that stretch from the nearbi al - mawasi area to the central town of deir al - balah and said they would find field hospit , tent , food and other suppli . the israel defens forc ( idf ) then took control of the rafah border cross with egypt , which lie to the south - east of rafah citi , as it began what it describ as a “ precis counterterror oper ” against hama oper and infrastructur in eastern rafah . the us had said it oppos a `` major ground oper `` in rafah . while the idf instruct peopl in eastern rafah to evacu , central and western part of the citi were not cover by the evacu order . but palestinian in these part of rafah have also fled their temporari structur as deadli bombard in differ area around the citi continu and troop advanc into central neighbourhood . one isra missil strike on 26 may set fire to a camp for displac palestinian near tal al - sultan to the north - west of rafah , kill 45 peopl includ mani children , accord to the hama - run palestinian health ministri . the strike caus global outrag . the idf later said it had not expect such a fire to break out . recent satellit imageri of western and central rafah analys by bbc arab show thousand of tent shelter displac peopl have disappear in recent week . aerial pictur of western rafah from 1 june show area that were dens popul have becom desert . similar imag of tal al - sultan to the north - west of rafah , where a major urban refuge camp is locat , show area of land have been clear of tent . on thursday the head of unrwa philipp lazzarini said all of hi agenc ' s 36 shelter in rafah were empti of peopl . in recent week , isra troop have been gradual push into built - up neighbourhood of rafah from the east and south . an armour vehicl and troop were seen on 28 may in a video post on social media at the central al - awda roundabout . satellit imag from 1 june also show sever armour vehicl posit near rafah . the satellit imag taken on 1 june show the destruct of al - abrar mosqu as well as sever damag to nearbi market build in central rafah . the idf ha also declar control of much of the strateg import buffer zone along the gaza - egypt border known as the philadelphi corridor . the un and other aid agenc have been warn the assault on the citi is have catastroph consequ . mr lazzarini said unrwa had to stop health and other servic in rafah and said hi agenc had onli been abl to pick up 450 truck of suppli enter gaza over the past three week `` thi is noth in the face of the need , '' he said . world health organ chief dr tedro adhanom ghebreyesu said fight had `` sever crippl `` healthcar provis in rafah where he said ten of thousand of vulner peopl were still present . he said the uae field hospit in rafah citi wa the `` onli facil in the area provid health servic `` but wa `` increasingli difficult to reach due to hostil `` . there wa also onli one fulli function field hospit in the al - mawasi area , he said . he call for the rafah cross to be reopen say it closur wa make it harder to get suppli and staff into gaza . the rafah cross in southern gaza , which had been the main entri point of aid enter via egypt , ha been close after israel took control of the palestinian side of the cross in earli may . the hama - run health ministri also said the continu closur of the rafah cross meant sever wound palestinian could not be evacu for potenti lifesav treatment abroad . some 25 , 000 wound palestinian need treatment abroad , it said . israel say it is facilit the entri of aid through the other point of entri in southern gaza , kerem shalom . on monday cogat , the isra defenc ministri bodi that coordin humanitarian aid to gaza , insist that the gaza side of kerem shalon wa `` at full capac `` , with `` the content of over 1 , 000 aid truck wait to be pick up by un aid agenc `` . howev insecur ha meant the gaza side of the kerem shalom cross ha at time been too danger to access , the un ha said . on tuesday the un humanitarian agenc ocha said access constraint `` continu to undermin the safe deliveri of life - save humanitarian assist throughout gaza `` , and condit `` further deterior `` in may . rafah had a popul of 250 , 000 peopl befor the war began in octob . that figur swell to 1 . 4 million peopl in the follow month , the un say , turn rafah into a vast refuge camp . in octob , the idf told civilian in northern gaza includ gaza citi to move south of the wadi gaza riverb . it subsequ assault on other area includ the citi of khan youni displac palestinian further south . the war wa trigger by hama ’ s unpreced attack on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 36 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza , the hama - run health ministri there say . on 24 may , the intern court of justic ( icj ) order israel to “ immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part ” .