an israel - gaza peac mural that wa defac two week after it unveil in east london ha been paint over by transport for london ( tfl ) . the mural appear on a tfl - own build on old street , shoreditch in februari and wa creat by the chariti , circl of toy . it featur two girl - one in a headscarf wave an isra flag and anoth wave the flag of palestin . tfl say it paint it black `` as not to encourag ani antisoci behaviour `` . arthur corvin powel , founder of circl of toy told the bbc that the idea behind the mural wa to bring attent `` to those suffer from war and move it away from the polit that domin the news agenda `` . he also said plan to replac the mural were under way . ani futur mural would be more reflect of all global conflict , not just israel - gaza , he ad . tfl ha acknowledg the chariti ' s aim and said the mural wa paint without their permiss . it wa remov `` in a consider way so as not to encourag ani antisoci behaviour `` , tfl ad . it ha also urg circl of toy to seek an altern locat for ani futur display to avoid them be paint over again . circl of toy wa set up follow russia ' s invas of ukrain with the goal of send toy to children caught up in the conflict . it recent establish a base in the middl east with the aim of encourag peopl to donat toy to children in israel and the palestinian territori . while the graffiti mural drew attent to their caus , it also receiv consider backlash . one media outlet , mint press , call the display `` bizarr `` and label it a `` normalis mural `` . spray onto the mural were the word : ' palestinian children kill sinc 07 . 09 . 23 11 , 500 ' and ' fund by your tax . murder is murder ' . the spray paint refer to 7 septemb 2023 , which is like to mean 7 octob 2023 when hama attack israel , start the war . israel say more than 1 , 200 civilian were kill in the attack and more than 250 peopl taken hostag - of whom 130 are estim to still be held by hama . in respons , israel conduct signific retaliatori attack on gaza . the hama - run health ministri ha estim more than 30 , 000 peopl have been kill in the strike . israel ha also forc displac more than 85 % of gaza ' s popul , caus a humanitarian crisi in the region . tension have spill over to london , with the metropolitan polic report that hate crime against both muslim and jewish commun have increas substanti in the aftermath of the 7 octob attack . listen to the best of bbc radio london on sound and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your stori idea to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk