the mother of a british aid worker kill in an isra air strike in gaza say she `` can not comprehend a futur without hi presenc `` . jame kirbi , 47 , wa one of seven world central kitchen ( wck ) worker kill in the attack on 1 april , includ two other briton . ahead of hi funer servic in bristol on wednesday , hi mother , jacqui kirbi , said he wa a `` remark man `` . in a statement releas through avon and somerset polic she ad : `` i can not express more deepli my gratitud for the outpour of love i have seen over the week sinc hi tragic death in gaza . '' her tribut read : “ jame wa a remark man , a true friend to so mani peopl and , abov all , he wa my son . “ i will miss him beyond measur and can not comprehend a futur without hi presenc . '' ms kirbi said she take `` great comfort `` know he die do someth that matter to him `` and the knowledg that he wa love by so mani peopl from all walk of life `` . in the fatal incid isra arm drone fire munit through three mark vehicl in the wck convoy as it left one of the aid group ’ s warehous in deir al - balah , south of gaza citi . briton john chapman , 57 , and jame “ jim ” henderson , 33 , were also kill in the attack . all three british citizen have been repatri . the men , who were part of wck ' s secur team , were travel with a convoy that had just unload more than 100 tonn of much - need food aid brought from oversea , accord to the chariti . also kill were the relief team ’ s leader , australian nation lalzawmi “ zomi ” frankcom , 43 ; dual american - canadian citizen jacob flicking , 33 ; polish nation damian sobol , 35 ; and their driver , palestinian saifeddin issam ayad abutaha , 25 . london and other western capit condemn the strike with prime minist rishi sunak tell hi isra counterpart benjamin netanyahu that he wa “ appal ” and that the situat in gaza wa “ increasingli intoler ” . the israel defenc forc ( idf ) said it dismiss two offic and reprimand three other over the incid , call it a “ seriou mistak ” . follow bbc bristol on facebook , x and instagram . send your stori idea to us on email or via whatsapp on 0800 313 4630 .