two senior isra militari offic have been sack after seven aid worker were kill in missil strike in the gaza strip . the israel defens forc ( idf ) call the kill of staff from world central kitchen ( wck ) a `` grave accid `` . drone oper did not follow rule and thought wck ' s car were carri hama gunmen , it inquiri say . wck call the idf ' s apolog `` cold comfort `` for the aid worker ' famili and urg an independ investig . the idf launch an intern investig into the death after come under intens intern pressur to explain the circumst . it find were publish on friday alongsid an admiss of `` seriou failur `` and the announc that an idf colonel and major were be dismiss as a result . three command have been formal reprimand for their overal respons in the strike , which the idf said were carri out in breach of armi rule . the idf said those who carri out the attack could also face crimin prosecut . in the space of four minut on 1 april , seven peopl work for wck were kill when three missil destroy their car one by one . the chariti ' s team had been authoris by the isra militari to help transfer aid suppli from the coast to a warehous , but a seri of mistak and miscommun on the part of the idf made them a target . in a brief for journalist on how the incid play out , the idf said it drone oper identifi what appear to be a gunman on top of one of the aid truck be escort by wck . after the aid convoy reach it warehous destin , a car carri what the idf said were gunmen head north , while the wck aid worker began drive south in vehicl mark with the chariti ' s logo . the investig found those mark were not visibl at night , and attempt to contact the aid worker fail . after a drone oper mistook a bag be held by an aid worker for a gun , the militari unit began target it with missil strike . the idf ' s intern investig also found : the unit involv in the attack ha been suspend from duti and evid ha been pass on to the militari advoc gener , the isra armi ' s top legal author , the idf said . in respons , world central kitchen said the idf had taken `` import step forward `` by disciplin those involv in the attack but call for an independ investig . a statement read : `` it is also clear from their preliminari investig that the idf ha deploy deadli forc without regard to it own protocol , chain of command and rule of engag . `` we demand the creation of an independ commiss to investig the kill of our wck colleagu . the idf can not credibl investig it own failur in gaza . '' us secretari of state antoni blinken said washington wa care review the inquiri and would assess what step israel wa take `` to ensur that someth like thi can never happen again `` . poland ' s deputi foreign minist andrzej szejna demand a crimin inquiri . one of the seven aid worker kill wa a polish nation . the death have contribut to grow intern anger at how israel is conduct the war , which ha led to call for countri to stop suppli israel with weapon in recent day . on thursday , us presid joe biden told isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu that washington ' s ongo support wa conting on more aid be allow into gaza and addit measur be introduc to protect aid worker . israel later said it had approv the open of two rout into gaza for humanitarian deliveri . it is not clear when these would be open or under what condit . the erez gate in northern gaza will be reopen for the first time sinc the start of the war , and the isra contain port of ashdod - which is close to gaza - will accept humanitarian suppli . more aid from jordan will also be allow to enter via the kerem shalom cross . there are seriou concern about the welfar of gazan after aid organis suspend their oper in the wake of monday ' s attack . the unit nation ( un ) ha warn an estim 1 . 1 million peopl - half the popul - are face catastroph hunger becaus of isra restrict on aid deliveri , the ongo hostil and the breakdown of order . un secretari gener antonio guterr said 196 aid worker had die sinc the conflict began and call for a `` meaning increas `` in the amount of suppli allow into gaza . meanwhil , the head of hezbollah in lebanon - which is close alli with iran - said tehran would soon respond to an air strike on it diplomat compound in syria , which kill a senior gener . israel is wide believ to be behind the strike . israel ha taken step to prepar for a potenti iranian respons , includ block gp in much of the countri in an effort to hinder guid missil and drone . on friday , hezbollah ' s leader hassan nasrallah said : `` the iranian respons is come without a doubt . '' much of the gaza strip ha been devast dure the isra militari oper that began after hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 33 , 091 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say .