easyjet ha suspend flight to tel aviv for the next six month follow iran ' s missil and drone attack against israel at the weekend . the airlin said it will halt flight until 27 octob , blame `` the continu evolv situat in israel `` . easyjet had onli recent resum fli to tel aviv follow hama ' assault on israel last year , spark a war on the gaza strip . the compani said : `` custom book to fli on thi rout up thi date are be offer option includ a full refund . '' iran carri out the strike – it first - ever direct attack against israel – after vow retali for the bomb of it consul in the syrian capit damascu . israel ha not admit that it carri out the consul attack , which kill a number of senior iranian command , but is wide believ to be behind the strike . tension are high over how israel will respond to iran ' s attack , which wa carri out between saturday night and sunday morn , with isra defenc minist yoav gallant say the confront with iran is `` not over yet `` . easyjet said : `` as a result of the continu evolv situat in israel , easyjet ha now taken the decis to suspend it flight to tel aviv for the remaind of the summer season until 27 octob . '' the compani wa oper around four flight a week to tel aviv . a number of airlin suspend flight to israel and other part of the middl east follow event at the weekend . most resum on monday or will do so on tuesday . other have re - rout flight to avoid isra or iranian airspac , potenti ad time to flight . germani ' s lufthansa group said it had alreadi decid on friday 12 april to circumv iran and thi measur will remain in place until 18 april . it ha also suspend flight to lebanon capit beirut . virgin atlant said that it is `` not current overfli iraq , iran , or israel , but we continu to monitor the situat for ani potenti impact on our oper `` . the airlin stop fli to israel last year but a spokesperson said it wa aim to resum journey in septemb . british airway confirm it is continu to oper four flight a week to tel aviv , via larnaca in cypru .