for week , presid joe biden and hi senior offici have been lose patienc with the way that israel is fight the war in gaza . they have use increasingli stiff languag to convey their displeasur to israel and the wider world . the decis to allow the latest ceasefir resolut through the secur council show that presid biden ha decid that strong word are not enough . remov diplomat protect from israel ' s conduct of the war is a signific step . it show the depth of the rift that ha open between the white hous and israel ' s prime minist , benjamin netanyahu . prime minist netanyahu respond with a broadsid direct at israel ' s most import alli . he condemn the us decis not to use it veto , say it had harm the war effort and attempt to free the hostag taken by hama on 7 octob last year . joe biden and hi top offici might file those remark under the head of extrem ingratitud . the presid is deepli attach to israel , call himself a zionist , and ha provid the isra peopl with emot support as well as all the militari and diplomat assist their state ha need sinc 7 octob last year . he want freedom for the hostag as well as the destruct of hama as a militari forc . but mr biden want israel to do that , as he put it , `` the right way `` . in those devast first week of the war presid biden warn israel not to be blind by rage , as america had been after the al - qaeda attack on 11 septemb 2001 . the us presid travel to israel , comfort famili of victim of the hama attack and even embrac mr netanyahu , with whom he ha never had an easi relationship . presid biden and hi secretari of state , antoni blinken , who ' s visit israel six time sinc 7 octob , have repeatedli told israel to respect intern humanitarian law , which includ an oblig to protect civilian . at the start of the war , as those first american warn were be prepar , prime minist netanyahu promis isra what he call a `` mighti vengeanc `` . sinc then , more than 30 , 000 palestinian , mostli civilian , have been kill with weapon mostli provid by the us . with gaza in ruin , famin loom for palestinian civilian and the prospect of mani more death in an isra offens on rafah in southern gaza , presid biden seem to have had enough of have hi advic ignor . israel claim that it alway respect the law of war and deni that it block humanitarian aid to the peopl of gaza . but evid ha pile up that the isra are not tell the truth , with children die of hunger a few mile from ampl store of food in israel and egypt . the american , and the rest of the world , can see the evid present by the un and aid agenc that gaza is on the brink of famin . the us militari is drop aid by air and bring a temporari dock across the atlant so that suppli can come to gaza by sea , while israel let onli small amount through the port of ashdod , a modern contain termin onli half an hour ' s drive north of gaza . the decis not to veto the ramadan ceasefir resolut is also an attempt by the american to push back at accus that they have enabl israel ' s action . it come after prime minist netanyahu ha reject , vehement , the biden administr ' s plan to find a way through the worst middl east crisi in decad . the american are tri to show that israel ' s impun from intern pressur ha limit . secur council resolut are normal consid to have the forc of intern law . israel must decid now whether it will respect the resolut , which ha been welcom by hama as well as the palestinian repres at the un . mr netanyahu ' s coalit govern reli on the support of jewish ultranationalist extremist . they will urg him to ignor the resolut . if he doe , the us will have to respond . if more word are not enough , the biggest lever at presid biden ' s dispos control the air bridg of arm suppli to israel , dozen of flight by huge transport plane bring in the munit israel ha use in the war , as well the one it would need if it goe through with it plan to widen the ground war to rafah . the us - israel allianc is deep - in 1948 presid harri truman recognis israel ' s independ 11 minut after it had been declar - but at time it is dysfunct . crise happen when israel defi the wish of american presid , and harm what they see as us interest . thi isn ' t the first time that benjamin netanyahu ha infuri the men in the white hous . he ha done so regularli sinc he first becam israel ' s prime minist in 1996 . but hi defianc of the us ha never been thi prolong , or bitter , and no crisi in the long us - israel allianc ha been as seriou as the one that ' s develop in almost six month of the gaza war .