israel ha return broadcast equip belong to the associ press , hour after seiz it in southern israel and shut down the us news agenc ' s live feed of gaza . commun minist shlomo karhi revers the decis , which ha led to mount intern pressur . the white hous express concern , while the foreign press associ said it wa alarm by “ the latest in a seri of chill step by the isra govern to stifl the media ” . the un condemn the move , call it `` shock `` . ap ’ s vice - presid lauren easton said it `` decri in the strongest term the action of the isra govern `` . mr karhi said the equip wa confisc becaus it wa violat a new media law by provid imag for broadcast on the qatar - base al jazeera network , which it ha ban . hi recent statement on x read : `` sinc the ministri of defenc wish to examin the matter of the broadcast from these locat in sderot regard the risk to our forc , i have now order to cancel the oper and return the equip to the ap agenc , until a differ decis is made by the ministri of defenc . '' mr karhi claim the imag allegedli share were transmit `` posit of our forc in the northern gaza strip while put them at risk in accord with secur opinion and the govern ' s decis `` . earlier thi month , the ministri shut down al jazeera ' s oper in israel , accus it of be a `` hama mouthpiec `` and harm nation secur . al jazeera reject the alleg that it wa and denounc the ban as a `` crimin act ” that violat human right . it wa also condemn by journal organis as a blow to press freedom . al jazeera ha continu oper in the occupi west bank and gaza strip , which foreign journalist have been ban from enter sinc the start of the war between israel and hama in octob . the associ press report that offici from the isra commun ministri seiz it camera broadcast a gener view of northern gaza from the southern town of sderot on tuesday afternoon . the offici “ hand the ap a piec of paper , sign by commun minist shlomo karhi , alleg it wa violat the countri ’ s foreign broadcast law ” , it said , ad that the agenc had reject a verbal order to ceas the live transmiss last thursday . the agenc stress that it compli with israel ’ s militari censorship rule , which prohibit broadcast of detail like troop movement that could endang soldier . howev , the commun ministri accus the ap of broadcast footag of gaza from the balconi of a hous in sderot that includ “ the activ of israel defens forc combat soldier and their locat ” . '' even though commun ministri inspector warn them that they were break the law and that they should remov al jazeera as a recipi of their content and not transfer their broadcast to al jazeera , they continu to do so , ” a statement said . '' the law and direct do not distinguish between al jazeera itself and the supplier who transfer materi to the [ news agenc ] from israel . '' the ap report quot ms easton as say that “ the shutdown wa not base on the content of the feed but rather an abus use by the isra govern of the countri ’ s new foreign broadcast law ” . “ we urg the isra author to return our equip and enabl us to reinstat our live feed immedi so we can continu to provid thi import visual journal to thousand of media outlet around the world , ” she ad . white hous press secretari karin jean - pierr describ the report as “ concern ” and said it believ journalist had the abil and right to do their job . isra opposit leader yair lapid said the confisc of a major us media outlet ’ s equip wa “ an act of mad ” . the foreign press associ in jerusalem warn the seizur would block ap from provid crucial imag of northern gaza to hundr of the agenc ' s client around the world . “ israel ’ s move today is a slipperi slope . israel could block other intern news agenc from provid live footag of gaza . it could also allow israel to block media coverag of virtual ani news event on vagu secur ground , ” it ad . media watchdog report without border accus israel of “ outrag censorship ” . on 9 may , commun ministri inspector raid a studio be use by al jazeera in the northern isra citi of nazareth and confisc a camera and other equip . it came four day after the ministri close al jazeera ’ s offic in occupi east jerusalem , stop the network ’ s broadcast on isra cabl and satellit compani , and block access to it websit in israel . in april , the isra parliament approv a new media law allow foreign network consid a threat to nation secur to be `` temporarili `` ban for a period of 45 day at a time , which could be renew .