it wasn ' t just the past they were rememb today . besid the row of fresh grave at israel ' s mount herzl militari cemeteri , new plot were still be mark out - too recent for a memori stone , their empti shape heap with flower . next to them , the vacant space stretch , shadow with the futur loss of israel ' s ongo war . the crowd pack around them - some in uniform , some in tear - salut or bow their head as the morn siren sound to mark remembr day ; the price of israel ' s previou conflict laid out in the cemeteri , beneath the pine , across the year . israel ' s defenc ministri say the name of 826 peopl from the secur forc were ad to the list of the countri ' s fallen thi year , along with 834 victim of terrorist attack - almost all of them from the 7 octob hama attack and the gaza war that follow . face with the human cost of hi current war , israel ' s prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , offer a remind of whi he wa ask famili to pay it . `` it ' s either us - israel ; or them - the monster of hama , '' he said . `` it ' s either exist , liberti , secur and prosper ; or annihil , massacr , rape and subjug . we are determin to win . '' hi speech wa notic less belliger than usual - hi call to continu `` until victori `` tone down - but he again justifi the continu of the war by quot those pay the highest price . a soldier who had both leg amput , he said , had urg him to `` continu until the end `` . doron perez said he had onli been half - listen to the prime minist - hi mind had been on hi son , daniel , a tank command who wa kill dure 7 octob attack . two month ago the famili buri daniel ' s bloodi uniform beneath hi memori at mount herzl - hi bodi is still be held by hama in gaza . `` [ almost ] 25 , 000 soldier have lost their live sinc the establish of the state of israel , '' doron said . `` and for me , thi particular battl wa the most obviou in term of the need to put our live on the line . thi is not a polit issu , thi is about the veri exist of israel . it wa one of those ' to be or not to be ' moment . '' despit the support from some famili , thi memori day is a sensit moment for israel ' s prime minist . beneath the nation uniti shown for the countri ' s war dead are grow question - and grow divis - about israel ' s war aim , and their result . israel ' s armi is current fight hama in area of northern and central gaza that were previous declar clear . fourteen isra soldier were report dead last week alon . the death of mani more palestinian last week bare figur here . stand befor the grave of hi daughter rebecca , robert baruch said there wa famili histori scatter around the cemeteri - an uncl buri yard away , kill dure israel ' s war of independ in 1948 . `` i don ' t know how we ' ll look back on thi in twenti year - i hope we ' ll say thi wa a last terribl phase in someth that end in good . but at what cost ? '' without a clear plan for the day after the war , and with more than 130 hostag still be held there , mr netanyahu ' s determin to continu fight in gaza is creat grow conflict at home too . on sunday night , israel ' s militari chief of staff , lt gen herzi halevi , said he felt the weight of the hama attack on hi shoulder everi day . `` i am respons for answer the poignant question that drive sleep from your eye , '' he told bereav famili . israel ' s prime minist , by contrast , ha been full of prais for hi forc ' sens of respons , almost silent on hi own . but hi focu on fallen hero doe not address the accus against him : that it wa on hi watch that hama grew strong enough to launch last octob ' s attack ; on hi watch that israel ' s intellig fail - and that hi choic to continu the conflict now is root in hi own polit surviv . benjamin netanyahu is face a militari war in gaza , and a grow polit war at home .