israel ' s militari ha said it plan to move displac palestinian in gaza to what it call `` humanitarian island `` in the middl of the strip , ahead of ani offens in rafah . some 1 . 4 million peopl are shelter in the southern citi after flee the fight between isra troop and hama in northern and central area . it is not clear what the `` island `` will look like , or how they will oper . but the militari suggest that aid and temporari hous would be provid . no timefram ha yet been given about when the oper could happen . the un and us have warn that a full - scale assault in rafah could be disastr . israel ha repeatedli signal it need for such an oper , insist hama can not be fulli remov in gaza without target rafah . it is consciou , too , that the group ' s most senior leader are still at larg , almost certainli now in the southernmost part of the strip . the isra militari launch a campaign in gaza after hama gunmen kill about 1 , 200 peopl in southern israel on 7 octob and took 253 other peopl hostag . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri say more than 31 , 300 peopl have been kill in the territori sinc then . the chief spokesman of the israel defens forc ( idf ) , rear adm daniel hagari , said in a brief to journalist on wednesday that they need to make sure that all 1 . 4 million peopl current live in rafah , or `` at least a signific amount `` , would leav ahead of ani offens . he suggest that they could move to `` humanitarian island that we will creat with the intern commun `` , where temporari hous , food and water would be provid . but there are still plenti of logist question to answer . move more than half of gaza ' s popul from rafah to the centr of the strip would take time , potenti week . car are in short suppli now , as is fuel for them , so most peopl would have to walk onc again , carri their belong . palestinian are hungrier and weaker than they were five month ago , which would also make larg - scale movement slow . the central part of the strip where israel propos to reloc them ha been badli damag by repeat ground and air attack . the us secretari of state , antoni blinken , said he wa yet to receiv further detail , but `` need to see a plan to get civilian out of harm ' s way `` of ani ground oper in rafah and ensur they had food , shelter and medicin . benni gantz , a member of israel ' s war cabinet , had suggest a new militari oper would begin in rafah by the start of the islam holi month ramadan if no new hostag releas deal wa agre . that did not happen , but prime minist benjamin netanyahu continu to refer it when he address the isra peopl . `` there is intern pressur to prevent us from enter rafah and complet the work . as prime minist of israel , i reject thi pressur , '' mr netanyahu told soldier at ofer militari base on thursday . `` we will enter rafah . we will complet the elimin of hama ' s battalion . we will restor secur and we will bring total victori for the peopl of israel and state of israel , '' he ad . the idf would also need to bolster it number again ahead of ani new ground offens . mani of the reservist who were call up in the earli day of the war have now been releas from duti , and would need to be brought back into oper . rear adm hagari told journalist that the idf wa also `` tri to flood `` gaza with humanitarian aid by open up multipl rout by land , sea and air . he said us militari expert were due to arriv in israel thi week to discuss with the idf a us plan to build a float dock and temporari pier off gaza ' s coast . it would be abl to receiv containerload of food , water and medicin . mr blinken emphasis that the float dock , which will take between one and two month to becom fulli oper , would be `` a complement to - not a substitut for - other way of get humanitarian assist into gaza `` . `` in particular , overland rout remain the most critic way to get assist in and then to peopl who need it , '' he said . the un ha warn that half a million peopl are on the brink of famin in gaza . israel , as the occupi power , ha the respons to see that food and medicin get to civilian .