lebanon is worri that israel might intensifi it offens against the lebanon - base shia milit group hezbollah , the countri ’ s foreign minist ha said , as the conflict between the two side escal along the border . in an interview with the bbc , abdallah bou habib said it wa unlik isra forc would cross into lebanon but that there could be more fierc air strike . israel and hezbollah have exchang near - daili strike and counter - strike sinc octob , when hezbollah launch rocket at israel in support of the palestinian in gaza a day after the deadli hama attack on israel . the violenc ha kill civilian , isra soldier and hezbollah fighter and led to the displac of ten of thousand of peopl on both side of the border , rais fear of anoth major confront between hezbollah and israel , which fought a devast month - long war in 2006 . “ as a govern , we ’ re concern , ” mr bou habib said in the interview in beirut . “ if there ’ s an escal , it ’ ll be from the sky ... i don ’ t think israel will [ carri out ] a land invas ... whatev they want to achiev from land , they can achiev from the sky , and they have domin in the sky . ” about 60 , 000 peopl from northern israel remain evacu and israel ha reinforc militari posit near the frontier , while repeatedli threaten to expand the offens against hezbollah if diplomaci fail to de - escal the situat . last week , defenc minist yoav gallant warn of a “ hot summer ” along the border , day after say a war would mean “ catastroph ” for hezbollah and lebanon . it remain unclear , howev , what an escal of israel ’ s campaign could involv , and whether the israel defens forc ( idf ) would be abl to fight on two front simultan , as the war against hama in gaza continu . a wider conflict would be damag for israel too . hezbollah - iranian - back and long consid by israel to be a much more formid enemi than hama - ha an arsen that includ precis - guid missil abl to strike deep into isra territori . “ the [ isra ] minist of defenc ha been say , ‘ we ’ ll return lebanon to the stone age ' [ in the event of a war with hezbollah ] . [ but ] we ’ re neighbour , no matter what , geograph , and i don ’ t think he want a countri in the stone age next to hi . [ becaus ] that mean he ’ ll be in troubl as well , ” mr bou habib said . “ i think these word , a lot of [ western ] ambassador tell us , are for domest consumpt , more than for us . ” mr bou habib ’ s comment came at the end of a particularli violent week on both side of the border . isra attack kill at least seven peopl in southern lebanon , includ two hezbollah fighter and a technician who had been fix a phone tower , accord to local author . in israel , the idf said hezbollah attack kill three of it soldier in the north of the countri . sinc octob , isra strike have kill more than 350 peopl in lebanon , mostli fighter belong to hezbollah and alli group but also more than 50 civilian . in israel , attack from lebanon have kill more than 20 peopl , includ at least a dozen soldier . hezbollah say the attack with rocket , anti - tank missil and explos drone are in support of hama , aim at divert isra troop from gaza to the border with lebanon . both group are consid terrorist organis by the uk , the us and other , and are part of the so - call axi of resist , an allianc of faction across the middl east support by iran . in southern lebanon , a hezbollah stronghold , villag are empti as an estim 90 , 000 resid have fled . hous and other build lie destroy while agricultur field have been burn by white phosphoru drop by israel , mr bou habib said . expert have warn that those strike are like to have a long - term impact on the environ , which could make the area uninhabit . until now , the attack have been larg contain to area along the lebanon - israel border , as hezbollah ha taken step to avoid spark an all - out conflict . isra strike , howev , have increasingli hit target deep insid lebanon , includ the eastern citi of baalbek , anoth hezbollah stronghold . lebanon ’ s govern , which ha limit influenc over the group , ha call for the full implement of the unit nation secur council resolut 1701 , to solv the current israel - hezbollah conflict . the text wa approv to end the 2006 war , which start after hezbollah kill eight isra soldier and kidnap two other in a cross - border attack . the resolut includ the withdraw of arm group from southern lebanon , between the litani river and the blue line , the unoffici frontier with israel . both countri have accus each other of violat , while lebanon say israel still hold lebanes territori , after the isra withdraw from southern lebanon in 2000 - someth israel and the un deni . “ as long as we have occupi land , and we have , we can ’ t stop the [ hezbollah ] resist . that ' s the problem , ” mr bou habib said . “ that ' s whi we want a last border [ like ] they have with jordan and egypt . it may not be accompani by a peac treati , but there will be peac on the border . ” us envoy amo hochstein and franc , which ha histor tie with lebanon , have led recent effort to reduc tension . hezbollah ha said ani perman deal can onli be negoti after the end of the israel - hama war , but that it will observ in lebanon ani ceasefir in gaza . addit report by samantha granvil , ghaith elsolh and jonathan dunstan