an isra hostag freed from gaza three month ago ha accus the world of forget those still held by hama and urg the isra govern to do whatev it take to bring them home . itay regev , 19 , told the bbc he wa held in `` horrif `` condit by `` veri , veri viciou `` captor and he did not think he would get out aliv . he wa kidnap from the nova music festiv with hi sister and a friend . talk on a ceasefir and hostag exchang have been ongo for week . but as yet there is no deal , with report stick point includ hama ' s demand for a perman ceasefir and isra troop withdraw from gaza , which isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha call `` delusion `` . howev , itay - who wa releas along with hi sister , maya , and 103 other hostag in return for some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail dure a brief truce in novemb - is clear about what need to happen . `` i think we should do anyth we possibl can to get them out of there , whatev the cost ... it ' s peopl ' s live , '' he said , speak to the bbc in london in hi first uk interview . `` i ' m sure if anyon had their child kidnap , they wouldn ' t realli care about what price need to be paid . we need to return the hostag at ani cost . '' about 130 hostag , includ itay ' s friend omer shem tov , are still be held in gaza . isra offici have said they believ about 30 of those still in gaza are dead . itay is in london to rais their plight with british mp - he said he wa there to `` scream their cri from gaza `` - and want the intern commun to do more to secur their releas . `` the hostag have been there for five month now . the answer is unequivoc , no they ' re not do enough , '' he said . `` for five month not to see the sunlight and you don ' t know what ' s happen with your famili , for five month to be in horrif condit and hungri ... they have to be taken out of there as quickli as possibl . they have the horribl feel of not know what their fate will be from one second to the next . '' describ hi 54 day of captiv , itay said he had to come to term with the fact that he might be kill . `` we were veri , veri hungri . i didn ' t have a shower for 54 day . my captor were veri , veri viciou . they didn ' t care . i had wound in my leg , big hole in my leg . `` and you live there in a horrif sens of fear . everi second that you live with thi feel is a terribl feel , that you don ' t realli know if you ' re go to wake up in the morn , or in a minut , if a missil is go to fall on you , if they ' re go to come in with a kalashnikov and start spray us with bullet . the condit are veri , veri difficult there . '' the war began when hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 31 , 200 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say . dure their earli morn assault , hama attack storm the nova music festiv site near the israel - gaza perimet fenc . more than 360 young partygo were shot , beaten or burnt to death . anoth 40 were taken hostag , includ itay . he rememb hear rocket and shoot as gunmen encircl the festiv , follow by scream . `` we went in a vehicl tri to escap the place and after five minut , we encount a van of terrorist spray all the vehicl with bullet without ani merci . i got shot in my leg . my sister also got shot in the leg , '' he said . `` and the terrorist got out of the van . they pull me out , they tie my hand , and simpli start drive into gaza . '' he said he thought he would be murder when he wa taken , with hama fighter make throat - slit gestur at him . `` i saw my sister maya injur and cri . maya also that day said goodby to me and told me if i come out of thi aliv , tell our parent that she love them . thi is a day i will never forget for the rest of my life . '' initi , he wa taken to a hous with a tunnel entranc insid and then , he believ , to a hospit . `` we enter gaza and the terrorist start shout and scream and celebr . it wa like a big parti . they brought us into the hous and in the middl of that hous there wa a shaft . they made us go down into it . '' he said he wa taken to a hospit where a `` veri , veri anxiou `` doctor and sever hama fighter were present . the doctor took the bullet from hi leg without ani anaesthet or painkil , he said . `` they put the forcep into my leg and they pull out the bullet without anaesthet . they told me to be quiet becaus if i wasn ' t quiet they ' ll kill me . in all that time there wa more abus , slap to the face , spit . '' he wa separ from maya , who wa also given medic treatment . her dangl foot wa re - attach in surgeri , but sideway , at an unnatur angl . but they still manag to commun . maya ' s request to see her brother wa refus by her captor , but they pass on a note from her . itay wrote back and they commun in thi way throughout their ordeal . maya , who wa unabl to walk when she wa releas , is now undergo extens rehabilit on her leg . itay , who turn 19 last week , is happi to have hi freedom but struggl when other like hi friend omer are still held hostag there . `` whi is omer still there and i ' m here ? sometim i feel bad about it . i would simpli do anyth to bring him back , '' he said . `` i wa there with him and i know exactli how he is feel and i want to shout hi cri on hi behalf becaus he can ' t do it himself . he ' s helpless . ''