israel ' s soldier are share footag of palestinian detent in the occupi west bank , despit the armi ' s pledg to act on previou misconduct reveal by the bbc . legal expert say the film , and it post onlin , could be a war crime . the bbc ha analys 45 photo and video , which includ those of detaine drape in isra flag . the israel defens forc said soldier have been disciplin or suspend in the event of `` unaccept behaviour `` . it did not comment on the individu incid or soldier we identifi . intern law say detaine must not be expos to unnecessari humili or public curios , yet human right expert say the post of detent footag doe just that . in februari , bbc verifi report on idf soldier ' misconduct on social media dure the war in gaza which began after a 7 octob hama attack on israel , which kill about 1 , 200 peopl . more than 252 other were taken hostag . more than 34 , 000 peopl have sinc been kill by israel ' s offens in gaza , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say . dure our earlier investig , we notic - and began look into - a similar pattern of behaviour in the west bank , which ha experienc a spike in violenc over the same period . despit the bbc ' s previou report on isra soldier ' social media misconduct , and the militari ' s subsequ promis to act on our find , a former isra soldier , ori givati , say he is far from shock to hear that thi activ is continu . a spokesperson for break the silenc - an organis for former and serv isra soldier which work to expos alleg wrongdo in the israel defens forc ( idf ) - mr givati ad that in fact he believ current far - right polit rhetor in the countri is encourag it further . `` there are no repercuss . they [ isra soldier ] get encourag and support by the highest minist of the govern , '' he said . and he say thi play into a mindset that the militari alreadi subscrib to . `` the cultur in the militari , when it come to palestinian , is that they are onli target . they are not human be . thi is how the militari teach you to behav . '' israel ha built about 160 settlement hous some 700 , 000 jew sinc it occupi the west bank and east jerusalem - land the palestinian want as part of a futur state - in the 1967 middl east war . the major of the intern commun consid the settlement illeg under intern law , although israel disput thi . our analysi found that the 45 social media video and photo that we examin were post by 11 soldier of the kfir brigad , which is the largest infantri brigad in the idf and mainli oper in the west bank . all 11 are , or were , serv soldier , and did not hide their ident on social media . four are from a kfir brigad reservist battalion - the 9213 - whose area of oper appear to be in the northern part of the west bank , accord to our analysi of their social media video . we ask the idf about the action of the individu soldier we have name and whether they have been disciplin , but they did not respond . we also attempt to contact these soldier on their public social media account to put our find to them . one appear to have block us and the other did not repli at the time of write . the most prolif of these soldier post under the name yohai vazana . mani of hi video show hi battalion enter home at night and detain palestinian - often bind their hand and blindfold them . women are seen panick as they are film without their headscarv . mr vazana - a self - proclaim `` digit creator `` whose forearm bear tattoo say `` never forget never forgiv , 7 / 10 `` - often refer to hi oper as `` hunt `` . hi militari insignia , visibl in the video , suggest he carri the rank of sergeant major . he ha post 22 video and photo on facebook and tiktok , from what appear to be bodycam footag of patrol , show the detent of palestinian . tiktok confirm that two video we highlight , which had not been taken down on it platform , have now been remov for violat it guidelin which `` make clear that we do not toler content that seek to degrad victim of violent tragedi `` . meta , the compani that own facebook , explain that it is review the content and will remov ani video that violat it polici . thi photo , a screenshot from one of yohai vazana ' s video , show member of hi battalion forc enter a home and pose in front of a palestinian woman with a child . fellow soldier ofer bobrov featur in a number of shot with mr vazana . caption on hi video often includ the hashtag `` 9213 `` , suggest he is from mr vazana ' s battalion . mr bobrov ' s video of hi militari oper are post alongsid clip of soldier danc and parti , get readi for patrol , and other snippet from their everyday life . one video post on 12 februari on tiktok includ sever photo of a detaine blindfold and bound on the floor as a soldier pose with the isra flag behind him . anoth soldier from the same battalion , who goe by sammi ben onlin , ha post eight video and one photo of palestinian detaine on instagram . the detain palestinian are frequent shown blindfold and restrain , have been forc to either lie on the floor , or squat , with their hand bound behind their back , in what are often refer to by militari and law enforc as `` stress posit `` . mr ben say in the post that he and hi fellow soldier have detain `` terrorist `` and claim to have found hama flag on them . israel - like the uk , us and other countri - proscrib hama as a terrorist organis . in one video , mr ben , who ha also serv with idf forc in gaza , mock two detain palestinian , order them to say : `` am yisrael chai `` , mean `` the peopl of israel live `` . ori dahbash is anoth member of the same battalion who ha post footag of militari oper in the west bank , includ a photo of a detaine that ha also been share by mr vazana . expert said the footag post by the soldier could violat intern law . dr mark elli , execut director of the intern bar associ , call for an investig into the incid in the footag , and for the idf to disciplin the soldier involv . intern human right lawyer sir geoffrey nice , who work with the intern crimin tribun for the former yugoslavia ( icti ) between 1998 and 2006 , agre with dr elli , but wa sceptic anyon would be held to account for their action . in respons to our investig , the idf repli : `` the idf hold it soldier to a profession standard … and investig when behavior is not in line with the idf ' s valu . in the event of unaccept behavior , soldier were disciplin and even suspend from reserv duti . `` addit , soldier are instruct to avoid upload footag of oper activ to social media network . '' the idf ' s respons did not acknowledg that it had pledg to act on our earlier find on similar social media misconduct , in gaza . mr givati , former isra command in the west bank , said he felt asham and disgust by isra soldier ' treatment of detaine . `` we should treat them with the same digniti that we would like to be treat with , '' he told the bbc . he said the behaviour reflect how he felt isra societi view palestinian , and call into question it claim to abid by intern law . `` we have no futur as a societi if we continu behav thi way , '' he said . what do you want bbc verifi to investig ?