the isra parliament ha approv a law give the govern the power to ban broadcast of tv channel includ al jazeera , the qatari - own network . prime minist benjamin netanyahu said he would `` act immedi `` to close the network ' s local offic . the us express concern over the move . with foreign journalist ban from enter gaza , al jazeera staff base in the strip have been some of the onli report abl to cover the war on the ground . the knesset , israel ' s parliament , approv the bill allow foreign network consid a threat to nation secur to be `` temporarili `` ban . the ban would be in place for a period of 45 day at a time , which could be renew . the law would stay in forc until juli or until the end of signific fight in gaza . `` al jazeera will no longer be broadcast from israel , '' mr netanyahu wrote on twitter / x , call the network a `` terrorist channel `` . for year , isra offici have accus the network of anti - isra bia . but their critic of the broadcast have intensifi sinc the hama attack of 7 octob . author claim it ha close link with hama , which al jazeera vehement deni . in a statement , al jazeera said : `` netanyahu could not find ani justif to offer the world for hi ongo attack on al jazeera and press freedom except to present new lie and inflammatori slander against the network and the right of it employe . `` al jazeera hold the isra prime minist respons for the safeti of it staff and network premis around the world , follow hi incit and thi fals accus in a disgrac manner . '' the channel ha accus israel of deliber target it staff . journalist includ hamza al - dahdouh , the son of al jazeera gaza bureau chief wael al - dahdouh , have been kill by isra strike . israel deni target journalist . qatar , where al jazeera is headquart , is mediat talk between israel and hama over the now almost six - month long conflict . previou negoti mediat by qatar led to a temporari ceasefir and the releas of 105 isra hostag . it is not clear , though , if the move by israel will affect the ceasefir talk . israel ha previous ban a smaller lebanes channel , al mayadeen , from oper in the countri . `` if it is true , a move like thi is concern , '' white hous press secretari karin jean - pierr said when ask about the propos ban . the war began when hama fighter storm into southern israel on 7 octob last year , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag , accord to isra talli . about 130 of the hostag remain in captiv , at least 34 of whom are presum dead . more than 32 , 800 palestinian have been kill and 75 , 000 injur in gaza sinc israel launch it militari campaign , accord to the hama - run health ministri . it say 70 % of those kill were women and children . al jazeera first launch in 1996 and shook up the media landscap in the middl east by air critic of govern and ruler in the region . but some govern in the region have taken issu with the network ' s coverag . it ha been close or block in countri includ saudi arabia , jordan and egypt . al jazeera say it wa the first arab channel to featur isra politician and comment on the air .