satellit imag show two new tent encamp in southern gaza as report suggest israel ' s militari is prepar for an offens in the citi of rafah . rafah , by the border with egypt , is the onli citi in gaza it ha not yet enter . well over a million peopl have been shelter there for month . the us ha said a plan to protect them must be in place befor ani offens . isra pm benjamin netanyahu insist enter rafah is necessari to defeat hama and search for hostag . the current war began when hama attack isra commun near gaza , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mainli civilian , and take about 250 hostag . israel ' s subsequ campaign of aerial bombard and ground oper in gaza ha kill 34 , 183 peopl , mostli civilian , accord to the hama - run health ministri there . over the six month of war , the israel defens forc ( idf ) have enter and taken control of all of northern gaza includ gaza citi and most of central and southern gaza includ the main southern citi of khan youni . they have sinc withdrawn from almost all of those area but troop remain station on a road israel ha built that separ northern and southern gaza . howev isra bombard ha continu across gaza includ in rafah , where about 20 peopl , mostli children , were kill in air strike on saturday . the satellit pictur show row of tent at a site to the west of khan youni and at anoth site near rafah . befor and after pictur show that both encamp had been construct thi month . earlier thi month isra media report that israel wa buy 40 , 000 tent to prepar for the evacu of palestinian civilian from rafah . on wednesday reuter quot isra govern sourc as say each tent could hold between 10 and 12 peopl . meanwhil isra media report said prepar to evacu civilian from rafah were under way . israel hayom newspap said the isra govern had decid to carri out an oper in rafah `` veri soon `` after negoti between israel and hama aim at agre a truce and the releas of hostag stall . other isra paper had similar report . us media have quot isra and egyptian offici as say that civilian in rafah will be move to khan youni and other area includ al - mawasi - a sandi coastal area between rafah and khan youni that israel design as a `` humanitarian zone `` earlier in the war - over the cours of sever week . isra troop would enter rafah in stage , the egyptian offici were quot as say , with fight predict to take about six week . a senior isra defenc offici told reuter the militari had complet prepar and wa readi to launch an offens on rafah as soon as order . mr netanyahu ' s offic and the idf have not yet comment . howev the militari said it had mobilis two reservist brigad for mission in gaza . isra offici say there are four hama battalion in rafah and their number have been reinforc by thousand of fighter who have retreat there from other part of gaza . `` hama wa hit hard in the northern sector . it wa also hit hard in the centr of the strip . and soon it will be hit hard in rafah , too , '' brigadi - gener itzik cohen told isra public tv on tuesday . on friday us secretari of state antoni blinken said the us `` can not support a major militari oper in rafah `` a day after the us and israel held a virtual meet to discuss an offens . he said the us had not yet seen a plan for get civilian out of harm ' s way and ani militari oper would have `` terribl consequ `` for civilian who remain in rafah . condit in the overcrowd southern citi are alreadi dire , with displac peopl there tell the bbc there wa a lack of food , water and medic . earlier thi month some displac palestinian in rafah attempt to return to northern gaza but were forc back by the isra militari . wit said it forc had open fire on crowd head along a main coastal road . kill five peopl . the idf did not comment directli on that incid but did say that palestinian should stay in southern gaza becaus the north is a `` danger combat zone `` . israel ha not said when palestinian displac from northern gaza will be allow to return there - a key demand made by hama in stall ceasefir talk . there ha also been renew fight in part of northern gaza , with the isra militari shell area near the town of beit hanoun and beit lahiya as well as the jabalia refuge camp and the gaza citi suburb of zeitoun . `` the bomb from tank and plane didn ' t stop , '' said um mohammad , 53 , a mother - of - six live close to zeitoun . `` i had to gather with my children and my sister who came to shelter with me in one place and pray for our live as the hous kept shake , '' she told reuter .