when dawn broke last monday morn , signal the begin of ramadan , it brought a cruel ironi for the peopl of gaza . the holi month when muslim fast dure daylight had arriv amid a loom famin . gazan had alreadi endur five month of war . virtual the entir popul wa alreadi depend on food aid to surviv . `` the peopl here have alreadi been fast for month , '' said dr amjad eleiwa , the deputi director of the emerg depart at al - shifa hospit , gaza citi . `` they scour the citi look for food to surviv , but they can not find ani . '' israel ' s bombard of gaza , in respons to the hama attack of 7 octob , ha destroy food infrastructur and farmland across the territori . aid agenc say enhanc isra secur check on deliveri truck have creat bottleneck around aid reach the popul . the global bodi respons for declar famin , the integr food secur phase classif ( ipc ) , report thi monday that 1 . 1 million peopl - virtual half the popul of gaza - wa alreadi starv and the rest of the peopl there could be in a famin by juli . the food crisi is most acut in northern gaza . unlik previou ramadan , resid there can not reli thi year on line their stomach with suhoor , the pre - dawn breakfast , nor look forward to assuag their hunger with iftar , the post - sunset meal . street decor , drummer and stall load with treat have been replac by destruct , death and a daili fight to find food . price for what littl flour or wheat is avail have risen five - fold . `` i rememb the last ramadan , there wa good food - juic , date , milk , everyth you could want , '' said nadia abu nahel , a 57 - year - old mother care for an extend famili of 10 children in gaza citi . `` compar to thi year , it is like heaven and hell , '' she said . `` the children now are crave a loaf of bread , it is a meal they dream of . their bone are becom softer . they are dizzi , they struggl to walk . they are becom veri thin . '' accord to the poverti chariti care , at least 27 peopl - 23 of them children - have die from malnutrit or dehydr in northern gaza in recent week . the real number , accord to doctor from sever northern hospit , is like to be higher . among those treat for malnutrit by dr eleiwa at al - shifa hospit recent wa a boy age between 10 and 12 who die last week dure ramadan ; a boy age around four month whose mother wa kill , leav him short of milk when none wa avail to buy ; and an 18 - year - old girl who wa alreadi suffer from epilepsi . `` she wa alreadi sick and none of her medicin wa avail ani longer and her famili had no food , '' dr eleiwa said . `` in the end her bodi wa veri meagr , just bone and skin and no fat . '' under hi care at al - shifa on friday , 16 - year - old rafeeq dughmoush wa lie on hi side , bedbound . rafeeq ' s bone were show and one of hi leg had been amput from the knee down . a colostomi bag wa attach to hi torso . `` i am emaci , '' he said , speak slowli in order to draw breath between word . `` i am so weak i can not move my bodi from one side to anoth . my uncl ha to move me . '' rafeeq and hi sister rafeef , 15 , were sever injur when an isra air strike hit their home , kill 11 member of the famili , their uncl mahmoud said . among the dead were their mother , four other sibl and their niec and nephew . rafeeq wa alreadi suffer from malnutrit , he said , befor the strike that wound him . `` we could not find ani kind of fruit to eat , no appl , no guava , there wa no meat and ani food at the market wa all too expens , '' he said . rafeef , whose leg wa shatter by the strike and pin togeth , said she had ask the hospit staff for ani kind of fruit or veget for him to eat , `` but they can not provid ani `` . ramadan use to be a time of pure joy , rafeef said , `` heaven compar to now `` . `` it realli wa beauti , '' she said . `` but these time will not come back . the best peopl in our live have disappear . '' the doctor at al - shifa have transfer mani child malnutrit patient further north to kamal adwan hospit , becaus it ha better paediatr facil , but children have die there in high number too . dr hussam abu safiya , the head of paediatr at kamal adwan , said that 21 children had die at the hospit from malnutrit or dehydr in the past four week , and there were current 10 children in an acut condit . `` i feel helpless to save these children and it is a hard and shame feel , '' dr safiya said . `` i have the same feel for my staff , who can not find enough food for themselv and some day do not eat . '' israel wa wage a `` war by starvat , '' he said . `` intent depriv children of food , kill them with hunger - there is no law in the world that allow occupi to do thi . '' the eu ' s foreign polici chief josep borrel ha also accus israel of intent starv gazan . `` in gaza we are no longer on the brink of famin , we are in a state of famin , '' he said on monday . `` thi is unaccept . starvat is use as a weapon of war . israel is provok famin . '' israel deni it is intent starv gazan . it ha blame the un , which it say ha creat logist challeng around aid deliveri , as well as hama , which israel say ha command aid . the isra prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , deni last week that gazan were starv . `` that ' s not the inform we have , and we monitor it close , '' he told the media outlet politico . but gazan are starv . `` the fact speak for themselv , '' said abeer etefa , the world food programm ' s senior spokesperson for the middl east . `` 1 . 1 million under the ipc phase 5 - that ' s catastroph hunger . and more than a third of children under two are acut malnourish . that mean they are at risk of death . '' on friday , 200 tonn of food aid provid by the chariti world central kitchen arriv by barg at a newli built jetti off the coast of gaza , construct by the chariti from the rubbl of destroy build . it is hope that it will allevi the sever shortag in north and central gaza , and bring some relief dure the remaind of ramadan . but the charit aid oper ha led to accus against israel that it ha abandon it humanitarian respons to the civilian popul , leav it up to chariti and other nation to step in to fill the void . `` as an occupi power , the state of israel is oblig to cater to the need of the popul , or to facilit the deliveri of humanitarian aid , '' said juliett touma , director of commun for the un refuge agenc , unrwa . `` and they are not do that . not suffici . '' on friday , as the world central kitchen barg near the gaza shorelin , khale naji , a father of six , wa help hi wife prepar dinner in the ruin of their home in deir al - balah , central gaza . `` we need thi aid , '' mr naji said . `` they talk about humanitarian aid but we get noth . '' like mani in gaza , mr naji and hi famili were attempt to observ ramadan . `` we are fast for god but thi year we can not enjoy it , '' he said . `` not the suhoor , not the moment we break our fast , not the ritual we usual follow . we are not dress our children and take them to prayer . we are not teach them about our faith . you just feed your child someth small and you are afraid all the time a shell will fall on your head . '' when sunset arriv , mr naji laid a blanket on a concret slab and sat with hi famili amid the rubbl . they had scroung a small amount of fresh food for the even meal . on some previou day , there had been none . `` the situat for us now , in the gaza strip , it make me envi the dead , '' mr naji said . `` we are not in ramadan thi year , we should chang the name . we are in the month of death . '' muath al - khatib contribut to thi report .