seven journalist , includ a freelanc work for the bbc , have been injur in an isra air strike in the courtyard of a hospit in gaza . four member of the islam jihad ( ij ) milit group were kill in the attack , the bbc understand . the isra militari said it struck an ij command centr in the ground of the al - aqsa hospit in deir al - balah . hama and medic staff deni isra accus that milit use hospit as base . islam jihad , an alli of hama , ha not comment . al - aqsa is the last hospit function in the central gaza strip . the journalist were among hundr who are shelter in makeshift tent in the ground of the hospit . most of the journalist camp insid the hospit ground are from northern gaza . they continu to work under extrem tough condit , with littl food , water or electr , and the ever - present threat of isra strike . mani work by sell photo document life in and around the hospit , while also look after their young famili live with them insid the tent . the tent closest to the explos belong to the turkish news agenc anadolu . `` they hit the tent without ani warn , we were stay in the tent as a group of journalist peac with no terrorist among us , '' ali hamad , a photograph , told reuter news agenc . `` we were prepar our camera and all of a sudden the tent wa hit , everyth went dark with debri and rock fli abov our head and there were flame . '' saeed jara , a freelanc photograph , said : `` we are unarm journalist and we have noth to do with anyth . '' the chief of the world health organ ( who ) said that four peopl were kill and 17 injur in the airstrik . a who team at the hospit were all account for , tedro adhanom ghebreyesu wrote on social media . `` we again call for protect of patient , health personnel and humanitarian mission . the ongo attack and militaris of hospit must stop . intern humanitarian law must be respect , '' he ad . the isra militari said `` the command centr and terrorist were struck precis , intend on minimis harm to uninvolv civilian in the area of the hospit `` . isra strike kill 77 peopl in gaza in the past 24 hour , the hama - run health ministri said on sunday . it report that nine more peopl die in an isra strike in bani suhaila near the citi of khan youni . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu said on sunday that an anticip larg - scale ground offens in rafah on the egypt border would go ahead , despit the unit state say it would not support the oper . mr netanyahu told a news confer that the offens in rafah , where there are more than a million displac peopl , `` is essenti to victori `` . meanwhil , thousand of isra protestor gather in jerusalem for the largest anti - govern demonstr sinc the start of the gaza conflict . mr netanyahu ha face widespread critic for the secur failur that led to hama ' s unpreced attack on 7 octob in southern israel , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and some 253 taken hostag . of those taken , about 130 remain unaccount for , at least 34 of whom are presum dead . famili of those held captiv in gaza have told their support `` take to the street `` to protest against the isra govern ' s handl of their releas . the word mark a signific escal in some of the hostag ' rel rhetor against the govern . sinc israel launch it retaliatori oper , say it wa aim at destroy hama , a total of 32 , 782 palestinian have been kill and 75 , 298 injur , accord to the hama - run health ministri . earlier thi month , us defenc secretari lloyd austin said that , of those kill , more than 25 , 000 were women and children .