`` my medicin is finish . i ' m so tire . i can hardli see in front of me . my chemotherapi ran out a long time ago , '' said siham . the 62 - year - old ha leukaemia . befor the war broke out she wa be treat at the turkish - palestinian friendship hospit in north gaza - the onli cancer hospit in the strip . she ' s one of approxim 10 , 000 cancer patient in gaza - accord to figur from gaza ' s hama - run health ministri - who have been unabl to get treatment or medicin sinc the hospit shut down in the first week of novemb due to fuel shortag . like other displac palestinian in gaza - of which the un estim there are 1 . 7 million - siham fled her home in the north when her neighbourhood wa hit by air strike . when we spoke , she wa shelter with her daughter , who ha a newborn babi , in a school in rafah run by the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa . she ha been tri to leav for life - save treatment for month , but ha been turn away at the rafah border cross five time sinc the war began - it is current the onli way out of gaza . all border cross with gaza were close for almost four week after hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill more than 1 , 200 peopl and take 253 other as hostag . israel ' s subsequ militari campaign in gaza ha kill more than 31 , 000 palestinian and left more than 73 , 000 injur , accord to the health ministri . in novemb , egypt reopen the rafah cross to allow egyptian citizen and other foreign passport holder to leav , as well as serious injur and sick palestinian . a recent report by gaza ' s health ministri said more than 2 , 600 patient had been evacu via rafah , compris 1 , 700 wound and 900 sick . egypt , turkey , the uae and jordan have pledg to treat thousand of cancer patient like siham , as well as those injur in the war . a daili list is publish by the palestinian border author with name of the peopl who have been approv by egypt and israel to leav . siham ' s name first appear on the list publish on 19 novemb for evacu to turkey . but she wa turn away by border agent when she arriv at the cross . `` they said the turkish envoy hadn ' t arriv . is our life not as import as the arriv of the turkish envoy ? how is someon suppos to get out ? or is it becaus we ' re not well connect ? '' she said . palestinian border agent said that becaus the turkish envoy wa not there to receiv siham on the egyptian side , they could not let her through . but we have spoken to other who were allow to travel to turkey that day . mona al - shorafi wa diagnos with breast cancer three year ago , and had been receiv treatment in jerusalem befor 7 octob . she had been co - ordin an initi to provid psycholog support for other cancer survivor and wa just three day away from her next chemotherapi session when the war began . `` we had to leav our home and stay in shelter and school with mani other famili , and we were veri worri becaus of our weak immun system , '' she said . mona ' s name wa on the same evacu list as siham ' s on 19 novemb . she wa allow to cross the border to egypt , and board a plane to ankara along with more than 130 other , she told us . she wa even allow to take her two young daughter with her , although each patient is onli offici allow one companion . `` i had decid that if they turn one of my daughter back i wouldn ' t cross , i couldn ' t leav them behind , '' said mona . her husband and son are still live in a tent in the tal al - sultan area of rafah . palestinian border author in gaza did not respond to our question about whi siham wa refus permiss to leav . we have spoken to two other cancer patient who were turn away at the border despit their name be on the evacu list . one of them , who did not want to be name , told us he wa also suppos to leav on 19 novemb , but believ he wa turn away becaus hi companion wa hi young son . he said palestinian border author prefer femal companion for evacue , in order to reduc the chanc that those leav could be hama fighter . anoth patient , who wa suppos to be evacu to the uae for treatment in decemb , wa told at the border that the offici could not find her name . dr sobhi skaik , director of the turkish - palestinian friendship hospit in gaza , told us that out of gaza ' s estim 10 , 000 cancer patient , `` the name of approxim 3 , 800 have been given permiss to leav gaza for treatment abroad , but in realiti onli around 600 have left the gaza strip sinc the start of the war , whether adult or children `` . we have spoken to doctor in gaza , palestinian health ministri offici in the occupi west bank , and palestinian diplomat in egypt to better understand the complex evacu process . a doctor or hospit in gaza nomin the patient in need of the most urgent medic care to the hama - run health ministri in gaza . those name are then sent to the egyptian author , who run a secur check . onc egypt ha approv the list , it is then vet by the isra author , who must also approv the name . when the final list is approv , it is share with the countri who have said they are will to receiv patient and is publish onlin . each group of patient is approv for travel on a specif date . but whether a patient is ultim allow to leav is up to the discret of the palestinian border author . in respons to whi more patient were not be allow through , the isra ministri of defenc told us : `` the rafah cross is govern by egypt . there is , therefor , no restrict as far as israel is concern regard the number of patient that can cross at the rafah cross to obtain medic treatment outsid the gaza strip . '' the egyptian health ministri , the egyptian foreign ministri , and the palestinian border author declin to answer our question on the evacu process of patient from gaza . turkey said in earli novemb that it wa will to take up to 1 , 000 cancer patient , while the uae announc that it would also take in 1 , 000 cancer patient and 1 , 000 injur children . turkish offici told us the countri wa current treat sever hundr cancer patient and injur from gaza , and it wa will to receiv hundr more . `` if gaza give us a list of 600 peopl , we do not pick and choos a certain number of those . for us , the more patient and injur peopl who can be sent , the better . we have the capac to treat all of them , '' one of them said . but there are other way peopl are get out of gaza . the war ha given rise to a lucr monopoli , with one egyptian travel agenc , hala , report to be charg palestinian $ 5 , 000 ( £ 3 , 900 ) per person to leav gaza within one to two week . befor the war , it use to charg about $ 350 ( £ 274 ) per person to go from gaza to egypt . after 7 octob , the price reportedli rocket to almost $ 12 , 000 per person , befor the compani limit it to $ 5 , 000 for an adult palestinian and $ 2 , 500 for a child - though hala doe not offici advertis thi . thi cost of evacu one adult is more than four time the averag annual salari in gaza . outsid hala ' s offic in cairo , peopl crowd daili , tri to get a foot through the door . one palestinian man , who did not want to be name , told us he had to pay to enter the compani ' s offic , and made anoth extra payment of $ 300 to a member of staff at hala to get hi famili on the evacu list . thi wa in addit to the $ 10 , 000 he paid to evacu hi wife and two children . we spoke to 10 peopl who use hala ' s servic to tri to leav gaza who said they had made payment of up to $ 4 , 000 to employe in order to secur preferenti treatment for their famili ' evacu . some of them have left and some are still wait to leav . the high demand ha also given rise to a secondari market of broker who prey on the desper of palestinian with famili trap in gaza and claim they can get peopl to the top of the evacu list - for a price . one broker in egypt told a woman that she could pay him an extra $ 2 , 500 to get her famili in gaza on the evacu list . in voic messag that she share with us , the broker say that hi contact in hala `` ha to hold the money in hi hand `` befor he regist the name and insist : `` i ' m do thi to help you , i ' m not take one [ isra ] shekel even . '' but the best connect in gaza can leav without pay at all . we found the name of palestinian who left gaza pose as egyptian citizen , who told us they were help to leav gaza by peopl with polit connect , who had ad their name to the egyptian citizen ' list . anoth woman , whose son need urgent medic care , said peopl with polit connect help them to get on to a special vip list , which is not publish onlin . she told us that her son ' s name `` did not show up on the health ministri ' s list . hi name wa on anoth special list `` which wa read out at the border . neither hala nor the egyptian foreign ministri respond to our question about the compani ' s activ . egypt ' s foreign minist sameh shoukri previous told sky news that hi countri wa investig . `` we will take whatev measur that we need so as to restrict it and elimin it immedi , '' he said , without give further detail . in januari , egypt ' s state inform servic head diaa rashwan said it `` categor deni the alleg relat to the collect of addit fee from travel from gaza , as well as claim that an unoffici entiti collect fee for the passag to egyptian land `` . in gaza , time is run out for siham and cancer patient like her , who are caught up in murki regul and red tape at the border . desper to get her out , her son saqr told us he tri to arrang for her to be evacu through the hala compani . `` if we had the money we wouldn ' t have hesit . when we ask about a privat evacu they said the minimum hala ask for is $ 5 , 000 , but we can ' t afford $ 5 , 000 . '' after her first attempt to cross , siham said she went back to the border four more time to see if they would let her through , as her name had alreadi been approv . but she wa refus by palestinian border author , and her health is now quickli deterior . `` i can hardli walk a step without feel dizzi now . i don ' t know what they ' re wait for , '' she said .