after month of stalem , the search for peac in gaza ha reach a critic stage . un chief antonio guterr say it is a `` decis moment for the palestinian and isra peopl and for the fate of the entir region `` . there seem to be common ground between most side about the principl : a ceasefir should take place alongsid the releas of isra hostag and palestinian prison . variou draft agreement have been drawn up , set out a complex process of how it would all work . there is some disagr over the detail of what should happen to whom and when and in what order . isra offici say , for exampl , that it femal soldier should be releas earlier than envisag . they also say the text should be clearer that the first 33 hostag to be releas must be aliv and are worri about not have a veto over which palestinian prison would be releas . these are issu that could potenti be surmount through negoti . but there is a more fundament stick point about a core principl that may be harder to get past and that is when the war should end . the open word of the draft agreement - support by hama - declar that there should be a `` temporari cessat of militari oper between the two parti `` . thi is larg unproblemat . six week would pass while peopl are releas , isra forc withdraw from some area , displac gazan would be abl to return to what if anyth is left of their home . but then stage two would begin . the draft agreement then talk about a `` return to sustain calm `` , which it defin as `` a perman cessat of militari and hostil oper `` . it is thi that seem to be unaccept to israel ' s govern . in a statement , the prime minist benjamin netanyahu said : `` israel will not allow hama to restor it evil rule in the gaza strip , israel will not allow it to restor it militari capabl to continu strive for our destruct . israel can not accept a propos that endang the secur of our citizen and the futur of our countri . '' in other word , israel ' s govern want the right to continu take the fight to hama in the long run . by contrast , hama want a perman ceasefir . what is not clear is whether there is a way for qatari , egyptian and american negoti to find a middl path through thi . it may be that all of thi is part of the negoti . public statement are frequent use in negoti to put pressur on the other side . the announc by hama that it support a particular draft could be an attempt to push israel into make concess and divid it from it alli . israel ' s warn about an immin militari oper in rafah could be an attempt to extract better term from hama . but the question of whether ani ceasefir is perman or not look hard to squar with clever diplomat languag . israel ha agre to send a deleg to cairo but with modest ambit - not to hammer out a deal but `` to exhaust the possibl of reach an agreement under condit accept to israel `` . much will depend on what the us govern decid . so far , us spokespeopl have fallen over themselv to avoid make ani comment on the deal hama ha sign up to . they have limit themselv to assert that an agreement is still `` achiev `` and to warn firmli against a militari oper in rafah . that is becaus if the us were to throw it weight behind the current text , then mr netanyahu might be forc to choos between hi main alli and the ultra - nationalist hardlin prop up hi govern who oppos ani compromis . mr netanyahu ha surviv mani crise in hi polit career by postpon difficult decis . but presid biden ha it in hi gift to forc israel ' s leader to make a choic that he might rather avoid .