four goal from martha thoma guid unbeaten scotland to a comprehens victori over israel that maintain their lead at the top of group b2 in euro 2025 qualifi . the tottenham hotspur striker score two either side of half - time in scotland ' s second meet with israel in four day behind close door as pedro martinez losa ' s side secur a play - off spot . thoma slot the open in budapest , hungari , after anoth impress start from the scot befor head in a second on the end of an outstand team move . her team - mate could have chip in with a few in between , but the striker settl ani nerv with a third follow good movement and ad a fourth with her head . onc the 28 - year - old wa substitut , chelsea cornet took the rein and emphat net her first intern goal with a smash effort late on . serbia ' s impress 4 - 0 away to slovakia later in the even mean they remain tie with the scot on point but behind on goal differ . friday nightâ €™ s first - half perform gener heap of prais due to the forward - think play , domin in the final third and , crucial , goal , which have been a bit spars for scotland of late . there wa hope that could be replic in hungari and , after a slightli sticki start , scotland met expect . thoma , who score the fourth from the spot four day ago , eventu slot home after break away from the defenc , but the visitor arguabl should have been out of sight alreadi . on her 50th appear , sophi howardâ €™ s header wa clear off the line , while clair emsli and kirsti hanson â €“ who both score on friday â €“ smack the woodwork and emsli wa also deni by fortuna rubinâ €™ s strong foot . the scot didnâ €™ t let up and a sharp second seem to be score after a bit of a stramash in the six - yard - box . the ball appear to be in , but the offici were unmov and , with no goallin technolog , play continu . the second did come , through thoma of cours , and while she got the final nod , it wa all about the well - work build - up play from captain rachel corsieâ €™ s defenc - split pass to lisa evansâ €™ pinpoint cross . thoma squander a header , but her first intern hat - trick wa soon complet , courtesi of her knee . and whi stop at three ? onc again , her height prove too difficult to deal with and she rose for a fourth on her best afternoon in a scotland shirt . chanc came and went for emsli and cornet too , but the ranger midfield final found her opportun to seal an impress win on the road for the scot . the doubl - header against israel sandwich in the middl of the fixtur list wa alway view as a must - win pair of game , with the hope of a good few goal too . scotland complet the task at hand with rel eas , bar a few scare on friday which were handl well by lee gibson in goal . martinez losaâ €™ s side look back to their old selv . the confid wa no doubt knock by the poor nation leagu campaign and the pinatar cup wa not as success on the pitch as some would have hope . howev , go undef in the first four group b2 game ha allow the scot to smile again and play some love stuff , despit miss key oper . across both game , the front three of hanson , thoma and emsli have particularli impress , and their link - up play ha been joyou . they seem settl and connect , which will be key if next summerâ €™ s euro are eventu reach . with erin cuthbert rest , captain corsi shift into the midfield and made the posit look her own . her natur instinct to sit deep allow sam kerr to roam forward and influenc the top end of the pitch alongsid cornet . scotland head coach pedro martinez losa : `` we are veri happi with the perform , veri proud of the team . it wa a proper team perform with some circumst to deal with throughout the game but that ' s what a team is there for . '' we are more proactiv in the final third and martha is a player who can be veri effect from cross and that ' s someth we manag to do . '' scotland have two game left in the group , away to slovakia on 12 juli ( 18 : 00 bst ) befor end the campaign by host serbia four day later ( 18 : 00 ) .