the isra militari say it ha taken “ oper control ” over eastern area of bureij refuge camp and the town of deir al - balah in central gaza , as dozen of palestinian were report kill . on wednesday morn , the militari said troop back by air strike had begun an oper against “ terrorist and terrorist infrastructur abov and below ground `` . resid report intens bombard and the chariti médecin san frontièr said at least 70 dead peopl - the major women and children - had been brought to a local hospit sinc tuesday . it came as us , egyptian and qatari mediat meet in doha and cairo to discuss how to finalis a new ceasefir and hostag releas deal . the us said on tuesday it wa still wait for a respons from hama to what it describ as an isra propos outlin by us presid joe biden last week . qatar said it had deliv the plan to hama repres and note that it wa also still wait for a clear posit from the isra govern . hama polit leader ismail haniyeh said on wednesday the group would deal `` serious and posit `` with a propos base on an end to the war and a full isra withdraw from gaza . israel ' s prime minist ha insist he will not agre to a perman ceasefir befor hama is defeat and the hostag it is hold are releas . and on wednesday , defenc minist yoav gallant declar that `` all negoti with hama will be conduct under fire `` . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which around 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 251 other were taken hostag . at least 36 , 580 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . bureij is one of the smallest of gaza ’ s eight histor refuge camp . it cover an area of 0 . 5 sq km ( 0 . 2 sq mile ) and had 46 , 000 resid regist with the un agenc for palestinian refuge ( unrwa ) befor the war . the camp is just to the south of the wadi gaza riverb and the idf ’ s “ central gaza strip corridor ” - a section of land control by isra forc which run east to west from the border with israel to the mediterranean sea , divid gaza in two . the nuseirat and maghazi refuge camp are also locat near bureij , while the town of deir al - balah is about 5km ( 3 mile ) to the south - west . the four area are current crowd with peopl displac by fight elsewher , includ mani of the more than a million who have fled the southern citi of rafah sinc the start of an isra ground oper there a month ago . earlier thi year , idf troop carri out a ground oper against hama fighter in the camp of central gaza that last sever week . on wednesday , the idf said the new `` target `` oper in bureij and eastern deir al - balah wa aim at dismantl `` terrorist infrastructur locat sever kilometr away from the border with israel abov and below ground `` . “ the activ start with a seri of aerial strike on terror target , includ militari compound , weapon storag facil , and underground infrastructur , '' it statement ad . `` dure the strike , sever hama terrorist were elimin . ” later , the idf put out a new statement announc that troop had “ gain oper control ” of eastern bureij and eastern deir al - balah . it ad that they had “ elimin terrorist ” in the area , destroy rocket and mortar launcher , and locat sever tunnel shaft . a man from bureij told bbc arab ’ s gaza today programm that hi famili fled the camp as the isra bombard intensifi on tuesday . “ we were stun that the armi wa conduct a ground oper again in bureij , ” he said . “ we were struck by shell fall on us from all side , land on citizen ’ home , on the street ... which led to the kill of a number of citizen . ” “ the situat in gener is extrem difficult , ” he ad . “ we left our home in order to preserv our live and the live of our children . ” a young woman said : “ fragment fell into our home and into some of the residenti apart in our build ... we surviv becaus we all were on the lower floor . ” “ we were in a residenti build full of approxim 40 peopl , some of whom were resid of the build itself and other were peopl who were displac from the north and the south , in rafah ... now where should we head to from bureij ? ” on wednesday morn , palestinian news agenc wafa cite medic and rescu worker as say at least 11 peopl were kill in isra air strike on sever home in maghazi overnight . anoth two peopl were kill in a strike on a home near the entranc to bureij , while two more were kill by artilleri fire in the abu al - ajen area , south - east of deir al - balah , it said . later , médecin san frontièr said it medic team on the ground had describ the situat at deir al - balah ' s al - aqsa hospit - one of the onli remain function health facil in central gaza - as `` apocalypt `` . the chariti said women and children made up the major of the 70 dead peopl and 300 wound , brought to hospit over the past 24 hour , and that mani patient were suffer from sever burn , shrapnel wound , fractur and other traumat injuri . '' the odour of blood when i enter the emerg room [ thi morn ] wa just overwhelm . peopl are lie on the floor . peopl are lie outsid ... bodi be brought in white plastic bag . the famili stand over them and pray , '' msf medic refer karin huster said in an audio messag . '' it ' s just an emot overwhelm situat . it ' s imposs for anyon to cope . '' at the start of it oper in rafah on 6 may , the idf told civilian to evacu to an “ expand humanitarian area ” stretch from the coastal al - mawasi area to deir al - balah , where it said they would find tent , field hospit and suppli . but unrwa warn on monday that space for displac famili in deir al - balah wa “ run out , as peopl continu arriv hope for safeti where there is none ” . “ live condit are not at all suitabl for famili and critic servic , and suppli are limit , ” it said . the idf also said on wednesday that troop were continu “ target oper ” in rafah . it ad that they had “ locat weapon and elimin arm terrorist ” , without provid further detail . resid told reuter that isra tank had mount raid into the centr of rafah and deeper into the west befor retreat to eastern and southern area . as well as displac civilian , the rafah oper ha result in the amount of humanitarian aid enter gaza drop by two - third , accord to the un . egypt ha close the nearbi rafah border cross sinc isra forc took control of the gazan side almost a month ago and the un ha said it is too danger to reach the nearbi kerem shalom cross with israel . “ in gaza , deliv aid ha becom almost imposs , ” outgo un humanitarian chief martin griffith told report on tuesday . “ we need all border cross open . we need safe and unimped access . we need to priorit humanitarian aid . ” he spoke after an independ group of expert warn in a report that it wa “ possibl , if not like ” that famin wa under way in northern gaza . howev , the us - fund famin earli warn system network ( few net ) said hostil and access constraint had imped the collect of data to prove that . a un - back assess estim in march that 1 . 1 million peopl across gaza were face catastroph hunger and that famin wa immin in the north by may . israel disput the report , say it contain factual and methodolog flaw .