sabreen wa dead befor she could look into the babi ' s eye or hold her . the young mother had carri her child through seven - and - a - half month of pregnanc . they were day and night of constant fear , but sabreen hope the famili ' s luck would hold until the war end . that luck vanish in the roar and fire of an explos in the hour befor midnight on 20 april . the isra drop a bomb onto the al - sakani famili home in rafah where sabreen , along with her husband and the coupl ' s other daughter - three - year - old malak - were asleep . sabreen suffer extens injuri and her husband and malak were kill , but the babi wa still aliv in her mother ' s womb when rescu worker reach the site . they rush sabreen to hospit , where doctor perform an emerg caesarean section to deliv the child . sabreen could not be save but doctor work to resuscit the babi , gentli tap her chest to stimul breath . air wa pump into her lung . `` she wa born in sever respiratori distress , '' said dr moham salama , head of the emerg neo - natal unit at emirati hospit in rafah . but the babi - who weigh just 1 . 4kg ( 3 . 1 lb ) - surviv the ordeal of her birth . the doctor wrote the word `` the babi of the martyr sabreen al - sakani `` on a piec of tape and attach it to her bodi . she wa then place in an incub . `` we can say there is some progress in her health condit , '' dr salama said . `` but the situat is still at risk . thi respiratori distress syndrom is origin caus by prematur birth . thi child should have been in the mother ' s womb at thi time , but she wa depriv of thi right . '' the doctor expect her to remain in hospit for up to a month . `` after that we will see about her leav … here is the biggest tragedi . even if thi child surviv , she wa born an orphan , '' dr salama said . there were no parent left to name the babi . her dead sister malak had want her to be call rouh , which mean soul or spirit in arab . but she ha been call sabreen , in memori of her mother . surviv famili member gather at the hospit , caught between the practic of creat a new famili life for orphan babi sabreen and their grief and anger . the babi ' s matern grandmoth , mirvat al - sakani , spoke of the `` injustic and slander `` of what had happen to peopl who `` have noth to do with anyth `` . `` my daughter wa pregnant and had a foetu in her bodi , and her daughter is with her , and my son wa also with them , '' she said . `` my son becam bodi part and they have not found him yet . they do not recognis him … whi are they target them ? we don ' t know whi , how . we do not know … they onli target women and children . '' the babi ' s uncl , rami al - sheikh , said her father had work with him as a barber . `` what ' s their fault , a whole famili wipe from the civil registri and the onli survivor is a small babi girl ? '' he ask . `` these are ordinari civilian . '' sabreen ' s patern grandmoth , ahalam al - kurdi , promis that she would rais the child . `` she is my love , my soul . she is a memori of her father . i will take care of her . '' the hama - run health ministri in gaza say that of 34 , 000 peopl kill in gaza sinc the war began on 7 octob , at least two - third are women and children . israel launch it offens after about 1 , 200 isra and foreign - mostli civilian - were kill and 253 other were taken back to gaza as hostag , accord to isra talli . the isra militari insist it doe not target civilian and ha accus hama of use the popul as a human shield . the isra air strike on rafah on the night of 20 april also kill 15 children from the extend al - aal famili . the father of sever of the children , abe al - aal , said hi ident had been eras as all of hi children and hi wife were kill . `` show me one man among them . they are all children and women , '' he said . an isra militari statement sent to the bbc after the strike said : `` at the given time , the idf struck sever militari target of the terrorist organis in gaza includ militari compound , launch post and arm terrorist . '' there are now an estim 1 . 4 million peopl crowd into rafah have been told by the isra defenc forc to move south to safeti earlier in the war . but in recent day , specul ha grown that isra forc will enter rafah soon to continu the fight against hama . the us ha appeal to israel to adopt a target approach rather than launch a full - scale invas of rafah , which might precipit an even greater humanitarian crisi .