columbia univers ha cancel it main graduat after week of protest on campu over the israel - gaza war . the ivi leagu school said it wa ditch the 15 may commenc in favour of smaller celebr to focu on `` keep them safe `` . the new york citi univers said it had arriv at the decis after consult with student leader . colleg across the us are brace for disrupt at graduat amid pro - palestinian protest . columbia univers said in a statement on monday : `` our student emphas that these smaller - scale , school - base celebr are most meaning to them and their famili . `` they are eager to cross the stage to applaus and famili pride and hear from their school ' s invit guest speaker . `` as a result , we will focu our resourc on those school ceremoni and on keep them safe , respect , and run smoothli . '' there have been demonstr at nearli 140 colleg across 45 state and washington dc sinc the protest start at columbia univers in mid - april , accord to a bbc talli . about 2 , 500 peopl have been arrest at campus nationwid , accord to an associ press count . last week , columbia call in the polic to clear pro - palestinian protest from it campu in upper manhattan , lead to more than 100 arrest . demonstr had occupi hamilton hall , renam it hind ' s hall , after a six - year - old palestinian girl who wa kill in gaza . the colleg also sent in offic on 18 april to arrest more than 100 demonstr who had pitch dozen of tent at the morningsid neighbourhood campu . the protest have been call for the colleg to divest from compani they say are profit from the israel - gaza war , but a number of incid of antisemit have been report dure the unrest . columbia ha ask that new york polic remain on campu until at least 17 may . also on monday , harvard univers ' s presid alan garber warn protest must end the encamp on campu or face suspens . polic in riot gear , meanwhil , arrest dozen of protest while clear a pro - palestinian encamp at the univers of california san diego . monday ' s raid came a day after polic in lo angel clear out a similar encamp at the univers of southern california ( usc ) . no arrest were report . in a statement on sunday , usc presid carol folt said action had to be taken becaus the situat wa `` spiral in a danger direct `` . also on sunday , northeastern univers ' s graduat ceremoni in boston pass larg peac at the citi ' s fenway park , with polic on site . member of the graduat class held palestinian flag and chant pro - palestinian phrase . other student wave isra flag . similar demonstr unfold at the univers of michigan ' s commenc in ann arbor on saturday . the univers of mississippi , meanwhil , is investig a student accus of appar make monkey sound toward a black woman dure protest on campu last week . the student ' s membership of the phi delta theta fratern ha been revok . social media video show pro - palestinian demonstr shout down by a larger group of counter - protest last thursday . the colleg said it had open an inquiri into `` action that convey hostil and racist overton `` . at princeton univers , at least 17 student said on friday they would go on hunger strike until campu offici meet them to discuss divest and a `` cultur boycott of israel `` . they are also demand the new jersey colleg revers punish of student after polic last week arrest 13 individu for trespass dure an attempt sit - in . the student were bar from campu and face disciplinari action includ possibl suspens or expuls . also on friday , faculti member from the univers of california , lo angel ( ucla ) condemn the handl of student protest . histori depart faculti member post two letter condemn the administr after polic last week swarm the campu to clear an encamp . univers of virginia histori professor , meanwhil , releas an open letter condemn that institut after polic arrest 25 peopl on saturday on campu , where pro - palestinian protest had refus to remov an encamp .