two day after israel ' s oper to free four of it citizen from central gaza , more detail are emerg of how saturday ’ s rescu mission unfold and of the hostag ' eight month in captiv . the hama run health ministri say at least 274 palestinian were kill and almost 700 injur in the assault . isra special forc freed femal hostag noa argamani use the element of surpris - but anoth team which had freed three male hostag came under attack prompt the isra militari to launch massiv air strike on crowd nearbi street as cover fire , kill score of palestinian . after week of meticul plan and act on intellig , the green light for the oper dub seed of summer wa given by israel ’ s war cabinet last thursday even . around 10 : 00 local time on saturday morn and in broad daylight , two team of isra special forc , some disguis as palestinian , cross into gaza . it ’ s thought they were travel in at least one truck and in civilian car . the street of the dens popul nuseirat refuge camp were busi with peopl shop in a nearbi market . the target were two residenti apart a few hundr metr apart . eyewit isaam jameel arouqi told the bbc some of the isra soldier came from a truck full of furnitur . he said there were two in civilian cloth and around 10 in mask and militari uniform . “ suddenli , special forc came out of it and start shoot , ” he said . speak from hospit , mr arouqi say he wa shot three time in the chest and stomach . there are report of a second truck with mattress on top from which a second team emerg , possibl use a ladder to get into one apart . the israel defens forc ( idf ) say the oper to free 25 - year - old noa argamani went smoothli as special forc took her captor by surpris , and quickli kill the guard . israel ’ s channel 12 televis , which ha spoken to miss argamani ' s famili , say the young woman told them she had been ask to wash the dish on the morn of the raid . accord to channel 12 , she suddenli saw the isra soldier with mask face who said “ noa it ’ s the idf ” . one soldier ask if he could pick her up over hi shoulder . onli then did she realis what wa happen . after be transport by car she wa then flown out of gaza by helicopt . her 246 - day ordeal wa over . the idf say the simultan oper to free shlomi ziv , 40 , andrey kozlov , 27 , and almog meir , 21 from the second apart wa more challeng as by thi time the element of surpris had been lost . more is known about the famili who the isra militari say were hold the three men . rami abdu , the chairman of the euro - med human right monitor organis , said initi evid show the isra special forc use a ladder to enter the famili home of dr ahm al - jamal . hi 36 - year - old , son abdullah al jamal is a one - time freelanc journalist who had also work for hama as a spokesperson . the special forc shot ahm and abdullah dead along with sever member of their famili , mr abdu said . the idf ’ s chief spokesperson rear admir daniel hagari who wa abl to watch and listen to the oper unfold live via video link say the code name for the hostag wa `` diamond `` . he describ hear with relief the word `` the diamond are in our hand `` , signal the three hostag had been freed . but it wa get the three male hostag out of gaza where thing began to go wrong . by now the idf say their forc were come under heavi fire from palestinian fighter . it ’ s report that at least one of the vehicl that they were leav in broke down . the isra militari decid to send in more support , attack from the air , from the sea and on the ground with massiv forc . mobil phone video from the scene show peopl dive for cover as missil whistl in and gunfir rang out . later footag show bodi strewn in the street . it wa in these moment that so mani palestinian are like to have die . '' mani peopl were in the street , scare and run away . it wa as if it were judgment day . no - one knew where to go , '' moham mahmoud hame told the bbc . '' there were mani peopl kill , so mani that we couldn ' t even get to them . they couldn ' t rescu or retriev the bodi , especi those who were wound . peopl were scare to go rescu them becaus of the intens shoot and bomb , '' he said . the isra militari said aircraft had `` struck dozen of militari target for the success of the oper `` . the two hospit in central gaza , al - aqsa martyr ' hospit in deir al - balah and al - awda , a facil in nuseirat , were alreadi at break point and were quickli overwhelm with bloodi casualti includ mani children laid out in the corridor . at al - awda sit at the bedsid of hi young daughter , her head bandag , wa moham al assar . '' two of my daughter were kill and the rest were wound , '' he said . '' my wife , my daughter raghad , my daughter reem , minnah , jannah , all of them were wound and two were martyr , may their soul rest in peac . '' sam rose the director of plan at unrwa , the un agenc for palestinian , said mani of hi staff in the camp were caught up in the assault . '' we had score of staff liter hide under the stair for sever hour as helicopt , tank , naval shell , as troop on the ground fought intens in the surround area , '' mr rose said . there have also been some detail of the condit the four isra hostag were kept in . the idf said they were in lock room and not in cage . channel 12 televis say noa argamani ha told her famili she wa move between sever differ apart dure eight month of captiv but wa not held in tunnel . she recount think she wa go to die on a number of occas , includ onc when a missil wa fire into a build where she wa stay . ms argamani said she wa given food but not enough and that she wa rare allow to go outsid for fresh air and onli when disguis as a palestinian woman . she wa also allow to shower on a hand of occas . the free of the four hostag ha been celebr in israel with relief and prais for the militari oper . but in gaza there is outrag at the number of dead and wound that the isra left in their wake on one of the bloodiest day of the war so far .