sinc the start of the israel - gaza war , follow the hama attack of 7 octob , the overrid fear ha been that the conflict could spill over into someth even deadlier . the day after the hama assault , lebanon ' s most power arm group hezbollah fire guid rocket and shell into israel in solidar with hama , prompt isra drone and artilleri retali . could israel , traumatis and vulner , with a prime minist fight for polit surviv , decid the threat from across it northern border in lebanon need to be neutralis ? the fear ha been that benjamin netanyahu ' s govern might be tempt into a second front in the war , against hezbollah - which , like hama , is intent on destroy the jewish state . and if so , would it draw in iran , hezbollah ' s key patron in the region and sworn enemi of the us ? thi week israel carri out more air strike on the bekaa valley , deep into lebanon , take the death toll in lebanon sinc the start of the conflict to more than 240 . in retali , hezbollah fire a barrag of 100 katyusha rocket on northern israel , it heaviest attack sinc the war began , with target includ isra armi base in the golan height . at least 17 isra have been kill in attack from lebanon and syria sinc octob . the rocket thi week prompt an angri post by israel ' s far - right nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir , address to the defenc minist yoav gallant : `` the militari is your respons . what are you wait for ? we have to start respond , attack - war , now ! '' last month , chief of staff of the israel defenc forc ( idf ) herzi halevi said : `` we are now focus on be prepar for war in the north . '' for long , it seem that the clash on the border were care calibr around unspoken red line to avoid escal into all - out war . hassan nasrallah , the leader of hezbollah , ha not call for it . memori in lebanon are still fresh of the disastr 2006 war with israel , which left more than 1 , 000 lebanes dead . and israel know that hezbollah ' s militari capabl is far greater than that of hama . a poll publish in the countri ' s maariv newspap last month show that 71 % of respond favour a larg - scale militari oper to drive hezbollah back . sarit zehavi live close to the lebanes border and head the alma research centr , which specialis on the threat there . she say hezbollah ' s aim is `` to drag israel into war without actual initi it `` . but , she argu , israel is not look for all - out confront . `` israel ' s interest is to avoid full scale war - but achiev an improv secur situat , while damag hezbollah ' s brigad as much as possibl . for israel , it is about choos the least worst option : we understand the capabl of hezbollah here and the cost of war . '' she believ that hezbollah ' s use of rocket , which have a longer rang than anti - tank missil use previous by the group , is evid of a shift in the group ' s militari tactic and capabl . `` hezbollah take into consider the cost of a war , but they don ' t look into the near futur - they look year ahead . '' `` they have alreadi gain by forc the evacu of ten of thousand of isra , '' she add - about 60 , 000 isra live in commun close to the border have fled the fight sinc octob , the largest such displac in isra histori . around 100 , 000 lebanes resid have also been move from the other side of the border . to allow for the evacue to return , israel want to push hezbollah ' s forc back beyond the litani river , which mark a buffer zone of sort between beirut and the isra border . as part of the agreement to end the 2006 war , the area south of the litani wa suppos to be clear of militari presenc except for that of the lebanes armi and un forc - which hezbollah ha violat . that ' s been part of discuss with amo hochstein , the us special envoy , who ha been repeatedli dispatch to the region to avert an escal . but a deal on hezbollah ' s withdraw and disarma remain elus . so far , both benjamin netanyahu and hezbollah appear to be hold back from the precipic . the isra armi is alreadi stretch in gaza , without open a new front - and a new wave of intern tension . and hezbollah is in reactiv mode , opt more for a lower - level war of attrit . but the real risk is miscalcul , and cave into compet pressur . mr netanyahu is batter by the percept that he left hi countri vulner to the worst attack in it histori , revil by famili of the hostag who want him to strike a deal to bring them back , and excori by the west over the mount civilian casualti in gaza . the fear is that he may see expand the fight in lebanon as key to hi polit surviv - and that israel , in the wake of the 7 octob attack , would not counten the continu threat on it northern front without take militari action . professor hilal khashan , from the american univers in beirut , believ israel ' s rel restraint so far doesn ' t tell the true stori . `` netanyahu clearli want war , '' he say , point to israel ' s strike on about 4 , 000 posit across lebanon sinc octob . `` he is finish polit and when the war stop , he will have to face hi reckon , '' he say . `` i don ' t think he ' ll give a damn about what the us or europ will think - he ha made up hi mind on hezbollah . '' a further , and potenti more seriou , unknown would be the respons from iran , which reli on hezbollah , it proxi in lebanon , as a bulwark against israel . sinc the hama attack , tehran ha flex it muscl across the middl east . iran - back group have hit us militari base in iraq and syria , and yemen ' s houthi rebel , align with iran , have launch countless strike on ship in the red sea . it ha so far stop short of an unfett war . but major isra strike on hezbollah could chang tehran ' s calculu . in lebanon , there is littl appetit for full conflict with israel , particularli among religi group that don ' t belong to the shia branch of islam to which hezbollah belong . `` non - shia are almost unanim oppos , and want hezbollah to disarm , '' say professor khashan . but shia are unhappi about the fight too , he say . `` by and larg , they don ' t want war either . '' hassan nasrallah ha said that he will not agre to a ceasefir with israel befor there is a truce in gaza . he is report to have told an iranian militari leader last month that he did not want iran to get suck into a war with israel or the unit state - and that in the case of a full offens with israel , hezbollah would fight on it own . still fear stalk those live on either side of a peril border . `` everi night , i take the imag of 7 octob massacr with me to bed , '' say sarit zehavi , `` and everi morn i wake and say ' ok , the terrorist didn ' t invad again last night ' . it ' s an existenti threat in the deepest possibl way . ''