after the event at al - rashid street in gaza , in which more than 100 peopl were report kill after a rush on an aid convoy , the intern commun is under pressur to tackl the grow crisi of hunger in the territori , as fergal kean report from jerusalem . they die in all kind of place and way . broken under the rubbl of their home , blast by explos , punctur by high veloc bullet , cut open by fli shard of metal . and now - as the war enter it fifth month - death from hunger ha come to haunt gaza . it is essenti to know the when , what and how of the tragedi at al - rashid street . although the precis fact requir an independ investig of a kind not like in gaza under current condit , that should not distract from tri to answer whi peopl risk their live to gather in the pre - dawn dark in the middl of a war zone . the refuge were there becaus they were desper to feed their famili . they die by bullet and trampl - we do not yet know in what proport - simpli becaus they want to live . that is a cruel ironi . eighti - five per cent of the popul of gaza is now displac . the war ha dismantl all normal econom activ and food suppli . water and electr suppli have been disrupt . hospit struggl without adequ medicin or power . for the last week the un - cite concern over secur - ha said it is unabl to deliv aid to northern gaza . these are fundament fact to bear in mind when tri to understand the tragedi . from the outset the intern commun - express in public statement - ha regard israel as have the primari respons for ensur aid can be deliv safe . but , after month of war there is no sign of what the un call `` an enabl environ `` in which larg volum of aid can be deliv to those who need it . it is not as if there ha been absenc of evid of a mount humanitarian crisi . wit the statement made by the un over sever month . `` we are alreadi see a cascad collaps in water , sewag , and sanit servic , telecom , food shortag , and healthcar , '' the un ' s human right offic report on 15 novemb . on 2 decemb , the offic for the co - ordin of humanitarian affair report : `` un humanitarian on monday said that aid team had onli ' extrem limit ' movement and access to the north wa `` now entir block . '' twelv day later the un secur council adopt resolut 2720 call on `` the parti to the conflict to allow , facilit and enabl the immedi , safe and unhind deliveri of humanitarian assist at scale directli to palestinian civilian throughout that territori . '' on 26 januari , the intern court of justic ( icj ) requir israel `` take immedi and effect measur to enabl the provis of urgent need basic servic and humanitarian assist . '' by 9 februari , director of the un relief and welfar agenc ( unrwa ) phillip lazzarini wa accus israel of block food for 1 . 1 million palestinian in gaza . accord to the un , 500 lorri of aid are requir each day . the daili averag ha been 90 . the aid fall by parachut from the sky in recent day is welcom on the ground , but it is also a symbol of the failur of the aid effort . there are road lead into gaza from israel and egypt along which lorri carri huge amount of aid could travel - if those road were safe . the continu war , and the chaotic condit it ha spawn , mean mani lorri driver will not risk their live . civilian loot aid , and crimin gang steal aid to sell , are part of what one un offici term the `` mogadishu - like `` condit that may be develop - a refer to the chao that envelop the somali capit dure the civil conflict of the earli 1990 . the hama - run polic forc in gaza is unwil to escort aid convoy becaus it member reportedli fear be shot by the isra . as for hama ' s leader , have provok thi war they have vanish and are now fight to surviv in the tunnel and ruin of gaza . israel say it is facilit aid deliveri and that , for exampl , there were three escort deliveri on the night prior to the tragedi at al - rashid street . it ha blame the un say aid is stack up insid the northern border and the un hasn ' t `` turn up `` to distribut the suppli . it is also deepli mistrust of unrwa - accus the agenc of be infiltr by hama . in the wake of the alleg unrwa sack 12 employe accus of either be involv in the 7 octob attack in israel or help in the detent of hostag . israel ' s defenc minist yoav gallant said the idf would no longer deal with the agenc . `` unrwa ha lost legitimaci , '' he said , `` and can no longer function as a un bodi . '' at the begin of the conflict , day after hama kill more than 1 , 200 peopl in israel and kidnap 250 other , mr gallant order a complet blockad of the gaza strip . `` there will be no electr , no food , no fuel , everyth is close … we are fight human anim and we are act accordingli , '' he said . that posit chang under us pressur with presid joe biden announc a deal on 19 octob under which israel and egypt allow aid into gaza . some suppli began to flow but there were still report of grow hunger . there were repeat entreati from western politician includ uk foreign secretari lord cameron . on 9 januari , he said he wa worri israel had `` taken action that might be in breach of intern law `` - ad he want israel to restor water suppli to gaza . a month later - on 12 februari - he told the uk ' s hous of lord that israel had to make sure food , water and shelter were avail to peopl in gaza `` becaus if they don ' t do that , that would be a breach of intern humanitarian law `` . in the wake of al - rashid street he call for an urgent investig . `` thi must not happen again , '' he said . but the evid from mani civilian in gaza is they live in constant fear of violent death and - increasingli - starvat . in time the world will ask itself whi the un secur council , compris the most power nation on earth , did not ensur the deliveri of life - save aid to hundr of thousand of desper peopl in gaza . thi after nearli eight decad of un humanitarian oper around the world . there is no shortag of experi or resourc . address the secur council a week befor al - rashid street incid , secretari gener of aid organis medecin san frontier christoph lockyear spoke of a situat where `` the law and the principl we collect depend on to enabl humanitarian assist are now erod to the point of becom meaningless … the humanitarian respons in gaza today is an illus . '' it is still too earli to speak of the tragic event of 29 februari as a turn point . but , the death of so mani in such terribl circumst have ad to the grow pressur for a ceasefir deal that would allow food to reach the hungri . the come day will tell if those hope can be realis .