the kill in gaza of seven aid worker , includ three british nation , in an isra air strike is on mani of wednesday ' s front page . the mirror ' s headlin is : `` kill tri to feed starv kid `` . the daili mail say two of the british victim , jame henderson and john chapman , were former royal marin , and the other , jame kirbi , wa a former soldier . the sun focus on mr chapman , describ him as a `` special boat servic hero `` . the guardian ha a photo of the burn - out interior of one of the vehicl caught in the attack . it believ the humanitarian situat in the gaza strip `` seem like to worsen `` in the wake of what happen . it say mani aid organis have alreadi suspend their oper in the territori . the i say the uk is demand answer from israel . the headlin in the time is simpli : `` outcri at aid worker death `` , while for the daili express it is : `` three briton kill on gaza merci mission `` . accord to the daili telegraph , the foreign offic ha been consid for week whether israel is fail to demonstr a commit to intern law , and whether it should therefor stop sell arm to the countri . the paper say there are emerg call that - if legal advic find israel is fall short of that requir - intellig share should be scale back . an investig by royal mail into report that new barcod postag stamp are wrongli show as counterfeit also make the front page of the telegraph . it say custom have complain about be forc to pay £ 5 penalti to collect their post , despit the stamp be bought directli from royal mail . the time report that the number of polic - enforc drug test ha risen tenfold in the past two year . the paper say figur due out later are expect to show 100 , 000 test were carri out by offic , in the final three month of 2024 . it say home offic data reveal the major of test come back posit , and cocain is found in nine of 10 of them . the paper say minist are plan to expand polic power to broaden test further . the financi timeslead with a slump in electr car sale in the first three month of thi year . the paper say the perform of the world ' s two lead produc of electr car , tesla , and it chines rival byd , have ad to concern about the slow uptak of the technolog . final , mani of the paper featur pictur of the 18 - carat gold toilet stolen from blenheim palac in oxfordshir in 2019 . jame sheen , from wellingborough in northamptonshir , ha plead guilti to steal the loo which is worth £ 4 . 8m . the sun ' s headlin is : `` the great chain robberi `` . sign up for our morn newslett and get bbc news in your inbox .