iran ha seiz a commerci ship with link to israel as it pass through the strait of hormuz earli on saturday . the msc ari wa board by iranian special forc about 50 mile ( 80km ) off the coast of the unit arab emir , a statement from the vessel ' s oper msc said . footag obtain by reuter news agenc appear to show troop rappel onto the vessel from a helicopt . the portugues - flag ship is link to isra billionair eyal ofer . the incid come amid heighten expect of an iranian attack on israel after an airstrik destroy iran ' s consul in damascu at the start of april . israel said on saturday iran would bear the consequ for choos to escal the situat ani further . track data last show the msc ari off the coast of the uae , head toward the strait of hormuz over 18 hour ago . it then appear to turn off it track data , which is common for isra - affili ship in the region . the uk ' s maritim trade oper agenc confirm the board in a statement . it made no mention of iranian involv , instead state that the ship had been seiz by `` region author `` off the coast of fujairah in the uae . howev , iranian media ha been quick to trumpet the involv of the countri ' s special forc in the attack . the countri ' s state news agenc , irna , said the naval branch of the islam revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) had seiz the msc ari as it wa `` link to israel `` . it ad that the ship wa in the process of be transport to iranian water . in video footag , troop could be seen rappel onto the vessel from a helicopt hover overhead . a crew member could be heard shout : `` don ' t come out . '' in the video , one commando could also be seen kneel to provid cover fire as other troop board the ship . accord to msc there were 25 crew member onboard at the time of the seizur . white hous nation secur council spokesperson adrienn watson said the crew is compris of indian , filipino , pakistani , russian and estonian nation . `` we call on iran to releas the vessel and it intern crew immedi , '' ms watson said in a statement . `` seiz a civilian vessel without provoc is a blatant violat of intern law , and an act of piraci by the islam revolutionari guard corp , a design foreign terrorist organ . `` it must be condemn unequivoc , and we will work with our partner to hold iran to account for it action . '' offici in tehran have yet to comment on the seizur . the ship is manag by msc , which leas the vessel from gortal ship inc - a compani affili with mr ofer ' s zodiac maritim . in respons to the attack , isra foreign minist israel katz call on the european union `` to immedi declar the iranian revolutionari guard corp as a terrorist organ and to sanction iran `` in a post on x , formerli known as twitter , say that the cargo ship belong to an eu member . sinc 2019 iranian forc have carri out a seri of ship seizur in the region and the attack come amid mount tension between iran and israel . ever sinc the lethal 1 april attack on the iranian consul build in damascu , which kill a senior irgc command , iran ha vow to strike back at israel , which it blame for the attack . while israel ha declin to comment on the attack , us offici have repeatedli warn that they expect iran to attack israel `` sooner than later `` . on friday , presid joe biden warn tehran against an attack on israel . `` we are devot to the defenc of israel . we will support israel , '' mr biden said . `` we will help defend israel and iran will not succeed . '' a spokesperson for israel ' s militari said on saturday that iran would `` bear the consequ for choos to escal the situat ani further `` . meanwhil , the militari announc a nationwid halt to educ activ , amid ongo concern over the potenti of an attack by iran . the suspens will begin at 23 : 00 local time on sunday . offici also announc a limit on public gather of 1 , 000 peopl .