qatar is reassess it role as a mediat between israel and hama , the countri ' s prime minist ha said . qatar ha had a key role - along with egypt and the us - in tri to secur a ceasefir between israel and hama and the releas of isra hostag . but sheikh moham bin abdul rahman al thani said doha had been exploit and abus and wa be undermin by those tri to score polit point . he also said the current peac talk were in a `` delic phase `` . attempt to secur a ceasefir have been delic and larg unsuccess , but the link qatar ha with all side - includ close tie to hama - are regard as crucial to achiev ani breakthrough . mediat have propos a six - week truce dure which hama would free 40 women , children and elderli or sick hostag - an offer hama publicli reject over the weekend . qatar is now openli question chanc of those talk succeed and say it is re - evalu it role as a mediat . sheikh moham - who also serv as qatar ' s foreign minist - said it effort were be undermin by politician seek to score point . `` unfortun , i mean , we have seen that there ha been an abus of thi mediat and an abus of thi mediat in favour of narrow polit interest , '' he said at a news confer in doha on wednesday . `` thi mean that the state of qatar ha call for a comprehens evalu of thi role . we are now at thi stage to evalu mediat and also evalu how the parti engag in thi mediat . '' he did not identifi ani individu , but some critic voic from within the us congress have accus qatar of not put enough pressur on hama to make concess . the us accus the palestinian arm group of be `` the obstacl to a ceasefir `` after it reject the latest ceasefir offer . with new fear that the damag war in gaza could escal into a wider region conflict , as tension rise between israel and iran , the qatari premier warn against the expans of the conflict and call on the wider intern commun to assum it respons and stop the war . meanwhil , the isra militari said 14 isra soldier had been injur , six of them sever , by anti - tank missil and drone launch from lebanes territori toward a villag in northern israel . the iran - back lebanes arm group hezbollah said it had fire on a militari target in the arab al - aramsh area in retali for recent isra strike that had kill hezbollah command and other fighter . hezbollah - which like hama is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the us , uk and other countri - ha been exchang fire with isra forc almost everi day along the border sinc the start of the war in gaza . that conflict erupt when hama gunmen carri out an unpreced attack on southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mainli civilian , and take 253 other back to gaza as hostag . more than 33 , 800 peopl have been kill in gaza , the major of them women and children , dure israel ' s militari campaign to destroy hama and releas the hostag , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . a week - long ceasefir in novemb saw 105 hostag - most of them women and children - freed in return for some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . isra offici say 133 hostag are be held in gaza - includ four taken captiv befor the war - but that more than 30 of them are dead . on saturday , hama put out a statement say it wa readi to agre a `` seriou and true `` hostag exchang deal with israel but reject what wa current on the tabl . it also reaffirm that it wa stick to it demand for a perman ceasefir that would lead to a full withdraw of isra troop from gaza and the return of displac palestinian to their home . israel ' s mossad intellig agenc , whose director is lead the isra negoti team , said on sunday that hama ' s stanc show that it leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , `` doe not want a humanitarian deal and the return of the hostag , is continu to exploit the tension with iran , and is strive to unit the sector and achiev a gener escal in the region `` . us state depart spokesman matthew miller said on monday : `` the bottom line is hama need to take that deal and they need to explain to the world and to the palestinian peopl whi they aren ' t take it . '' last week , a senior isra offici told us media that hama had inform mediat that it did not have 40 live hostag who meet one of the criteria laid out in the latest ceasefir propos - children , women , includ soldier , men over the age of 50 and those with seriou medic condit . a senior hama offici , meanwhil , said it need a ceasefir to be under way to provid `` enough time and safeti `` to locat all the hostag . sheikh moham also call on the intern commun to `` assum it respons and stop thi war `` , warn that that civilian in gaza face `` sieg and starvat `` , with aid be use as a `` tool for polit blackmail `` . a un - back assess said last month that 1 . 1 million peopl - half the popul - were face catastroph hunger and that famin wa immin in northern gaza . the un ha blame isra restrict on aid deliveri , the ongo hostil and the breakdown of order . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ' s offic said on wednesday that he `` reject the claim of intern organis regard famin in gaza `` and insist israel wa `` go abov and beyond in the humanitarian sphere `` . the isra militari also announc that food aid had enter gaza from israel ' s ashdod contain port for the first time , with eight un world food programm lorri transport flour via the isra - control kerem shalom cross with the south of the territori on wednesday . a new cross with northern gaza wa also open last week as israel sought to meet the demand made by us presid joe biden follow an isra air strike in gaza on 1 april that kill seven world central kitchen aid worker . `` in the 12 day follow my call with prime minist netanyahu , 3 , 000 truck with food and suppli move into gaza - a daili increas of over 50 % from the week prior , '' mr biden wrote on x , formerli twitter , on wednesday . howev , the un agenc for palestinian refuge ( unrwa ) , which is the largest humanitarian organis in gaza , said in a report on tuesday that there had been `` no signific chang in the volum of humanitarian suppli enter gaza or improv access to the north `` . accord to figur publish by unrwa , an averag of 185 lorri enter gaza per day via kerem shalom and the egyptian - control rafah cross between 5 april - the day after mr biden spoke to mr netanyahu - and 15 april , the latest avail date . the daili averag wa 168 in the seven day between 29 march and 4 april , accord to the data . a senior un humanitarian offici also warn on tuesday that it wa still struggl to prevent famin even though there had been some improv in the co - ordin of aid deliveri with israel . `` it ' s much bigger than simpli bring in flour and bake a few loav of bread . it is realli complex , '' andrea de domenico note . `` water , sanit and health are fundament to curb famin . '' cogat , the isra defenc ministri bodi that is co - ordin aid deliveri to gaza , said 700 lorri load of suppli were wait to be collect on the palestinian side of kerem shalom . `` we scale up our capabl . all the un did wa make up excus , '' it ad . in a separ develop on the ground in gaza on wednesday , the isra militari said it troop and aircraft had `` elimin a number of terrorist and destroy terrorist infrastructur `` in the centr of the territori . palestinian media report that there had been intens bombard and fight in and around nuseirat refuge camp , where 11 member of the al - nouri famili were reportedli kill in a strike on their home on tuesday . the isra militari also said it forc had carri out a raid `` to apprehend terrorist hide in school `` in the northern town of beit hanoun . a number of hama and palestinian islam jihad oper were detain and other who resist were kill , it ad . four peopl were reportedli kill on tuesday when a hous in beit hanoun wa hit and significantli damag , accord to the un . one man in neighbour jabalia told bbc arab ' s gaza lifelin radio servic : `` we were shock by the advanc of the occup [ isra ] forc , which surround the entir area and arrest young men , women and children . the forc evacu us from the area , kill peopl in beit hanoun , enter the shelter school , and arrest those insid them . '' `` thi is how our life ha becom unbear … whenev and wherev we walk , tank alway shower us with shell . ''