humanitarian assist in gaza ha been “ systemat paralys ” by restrict impos by the war parti there , warn the norwegian refuge council . the organis said 2 , 000 aid truck were stuck on the egyptian side of the rafah border cross , which ha been close sinc israel ’ s militari launch an oper against hama in the southern citi of rafah on 6 may . suze van meegen , nrc ’ s head of oper for gaza , said palestinian were be “ activ depriv ” of much - need shipment of medicin , tent , water tank , sanitari product and other basic . the israel defens forc ( idf ) say it ha open new cross , pave road and fix water pipe to eas the suffer of palestinian , and claim one million displac peopl have evacu from rafah , ahead of the fight . ms van meegen said : “ the citi of rafah is now compris of three entir differ world : the east is an archetyp war zone , the middl is a ghost town , and the west is a congest mass of peopl live in deplor condit . ” she also claim that some palestinian had been displac up to nine time sinc the conflict began in octob . “ peopl have no choic but to put their faith in so - call ‘ humanitarian safe zone ’ design by the forc that have kill their famili member and destroy their home . ” satellit imag show how area previous cover with tent and makeshift shelter have been clear sinc israel ’ s militari oper in rafah start . there is also grow evid of destruct of build and infrastructur in the citi . idf spokesman rear admir daniel hagari said forc were oper in a “ target and precis ” way to erad remain hama battalion . “ hama terrorist are wage war while embed themselv insid and under civilian area in rafah - becaus hama want gazan civilian to be caught in the crossfir . we don ’ t . ” amo harel , a defenc journalist with the isra newspap haaretz , said forc were make signific progress in take control of the citi and the philadelphi corridor , a narrow strip of land that run along the border with egypt . “ by now they ’ ve cover more than half of the philadelphi corridor and they didn ’ t see ani seriou hama opposit in that area , ” he said . harel also believ israel ha been given a green light by the us to continu it militari advanc further into rafah , despit presid joe biden have previous warn against go into “ popul centr ” . “ it ’ s quit clear that the american are no longer tri to prevent israel from occupi rafah . so the isra may proceed care and not too quickli . but it ’ s less of a question of whether the isra are go to occupi rafah . it ’ s quit clear that they are . ” the intern court of justic ( icj ) is expect to rule on friday whether the idf ’ s oper in rafah should be halt . south africa submit the request to the un ’ s top court thi month , as part of a case it file in decemb that accus israel of genocid against the palestinian . israel ha accus south africa of present bias and fals claim . an isra govern spokesman said : `` no power on earth will stop israel from protect it citizen and go after hama in gaza . ” there ’ s also been intens fight in the north of gaza , especi around jabalia , where 27 patient and staff are refus to leav the al - awda hospit despit isra soldier order them to evacu . most of the occup have been move follow four day of militari action around the hospit , but the deputi director , moham salha , told the bbc : “ i had a clear discuss with the isra offic and i said to him i will not evacu the hospit . if you can ’ t provid ambul , sorri , i will not evacu . ” the bbc understand that 14 staff member remain , along with 11 patient and two parent of children who are patient . mr salha ad : “ if we evacu , these patient will be lost , they will not get the health servic they need . ” he said there wa onli rainwat to drink and they were consid cut meal to one per day to save food . he also said the hospit ’ s sourc of power wa run short . “ we are use a small gener a coupl of hour a day to charg the batteri in the hospit . ” “ we do not have ani more clean water . the isra forc destroy our filter system two month ago . we are complet depend on compani and organis deliv fresh water , but becaus of the sieg they are not get through . ” eid sabeh , the nurs director at the nearbi kamal adwan hospit , said hi wa the onli medic facil open to patient in the north gaza governor . but he warn : “ the health situat at the hospit is catastroph , especi with the immin deplet of medic suppli and the fuel need to oper the gener . ” mahmoud al - sharif , who live in jabalia ’ s refuge camp , said the idf wa target civilian home and had besieg the al - awda hospit . “ the situat on the ground is dire , with the armi besieg sever area in jabalia and it camp , and we hear noth but gunfir , ” he ad . the idf wrote on x , formerli twitter , that it forc were attempt to “ elimin terrorist , and locat and destroy underground infrastructur ” .