the unit nation secur council ha vote to support a us resolut back a ceasefir plan for the war in gaza . the propos set out condit for a `` full and complet ceasefir `` , the releas of hostag held by hama , the return of dead hostag ' remain and the exchang of palestinian prison . fourteen of the 15 secur council member vote in favour of the us - draft resolut . russia abstain . the resolut state that israel ha accept the ceasefir propos , and urg hama to agre to it too . it mean the secur council join a number of govern , as well as the g7 group of the world ' s richest nation , in back the three - part plan that wa unveil by presid joe biden in a televis statement on 31 may . mr biden describ it then as an isra ceasefir propos . the propos submit by israel to the us and fellow mediat qatar and egypt – reportedli lengthier than the summari present by mr biden - ha not been made public and it is unclear whether it vari from what the presid present . the propos wa agre to by israel ’ s three - man war cabinet and ha not been divulg to the wider govern . some far - right minist have alreadi made clear they oppos it . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha not said directli whether he support the plan as laid out by presid biden . the resolut wa approv shortli after us secretari of state antoni blinken met with foreign leader , includ mr netanyahu , in an attempt to build support for the ceasefir deal . just hour befor the un vote , mr blinken said hi messag to leader in the region wa : `` if you want a ceasefir , press hama to say ye . '' the group ha previous said it support part of the plan , and it releas a statement on monday “ welcom ” the secur council resolut . hama emphasis it demand for a perman ceasefir in gaza , full isra withdraw from the gaza strip , as well as the exchang for palestinian prison . the group said it is readi to cooper with mediat and enter `` indirect negoti `` . it polit leadership in doha ha yet to formal respond to the propos , accord to us and isra offici . the propos would end with a major reconstruct plan for gaza , which ha been larg destroy in the conflict . the first phase concern a hostag - prison swap as well as a short - term ceasefir . the second phase includ a `` perman end to hostil `` , as well as a full withdraw of isra forc from gaza , accord to a text of the us draft resolut . the third phase focus on the enclav ' s long - term outlook , and it would start a multi - year reconstruct plan for gaza . monday ' s resolut come 10 day after presid biden said the isra had agre to the plan . while mr biden present the peac initi as an isra one , the us is also awar israel ’ s own fractiou rule coalit is approach the plan with reluct . thi extend to outright opposit by some far - right minist who are threaten to trigger a collaps of the govern if the deal progress . the resign of former gener and centrist benni gantz from the war cabinet on sunday ha deepen that sens of instabl . jeremi bowen : netanyahu walk tightrop as us urg dealpresid biden ' s account on x , formerli twitter , note the passag of the resolut . `` hama say it want a ceasefir , '' the post said . `` thi deal is an opportun to prove they mean it . '' linda thoma - greenfield , the us ambassador to the un , said : `` today we vote for peac `` . uk ambassador barbara woodward describ the situat in gaza as `` catastroph `` , ad that the `` suffer ha gone on for far too long `` . '' we call upon the parti to seiz thi opportun and move toward last peac which guarante secur and stabil for both the isra and palestinian peopl , '' ms woodward said . uk foreign secretari david cameron also welcom the resolut . explain it abstent , russia ' s un ambassador vassili nebenzia rais concern over the clariti of the deal and whether israel had truli accept the plan to end it militari oper in gaza , as the resolut state . '' given the mani statement from israel on the extens of the war until hama is complet defeat ... what specif ha israel agre to ? '' mr nebenzia ask . despit vote in favour , china also express concern over the text . it un ambassador question whether thi time would be ani differ to the three previou secur council resolut on the conflict , which were not implement despit be legal bind . on 25 march , the un secur council pass a resolut call for a ceasefir . while the us had previous veto similar measur , say such a move would be wrong while delic negoti were continu between israel and hama , it abstain rather than veto the march resolut . mr netanyahu said at the time that the us had `` abandon `` it prior posit link a ceasefir to the releas of hostag . the conflict began when hama attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take some 251 peopl hostag . the hama - run health ministri say the death toll in gaza ha surpass 37 , 000 sinc israel respond to it attack .