the un secur council ha call for an immedi ceasefir in gaza , after the us did not veto the measur in a shift from it previou posit . it also demand the immedi and uncondit releas of all hostag . it is the first time the council ha call for a ceasefir sinc the war began in octob after sever fail attempt . the move by the us signal grow diverg between it and it alli israel over israel ' s offens in gaza . in an unusu strong rebuk , a statement from isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ' s offic said the us had `` abandon `` it previou posit which had directli link a ceasefir to a hostag releas . `` regrett , the unit state did not veto the new resolut , '' it said . the statement said thi harm effort to releas hostag by give hama hope it could use intern pressur on israel to achiev a ceasefir without free the captiv . it also said mr netanyahu had decid to cancel meet between an isra deleg and us offici in washington that were schedul for thi week . israel ' s defenc minist said israel would not stop the war in gaza while hostag were still be held there . the palestinian repres to the un , riyad mansour , welcom the resolut but said it wa overdu . `` it ha taken six month , over 100 , 000 palestinian kill and maim , two million displac , and famin , for thi council to final demand an immedi ceasefir , '' mr mansour said . hama , the palestinian islamist group which govern gaza and which trigger the war with an unpreced attack on israel on 7 octob , also welcom the resolut . it said it wa readi `` to engag in an immedi prison exchang process that lead to the releas of prison on both side `` . the group ha made ani hostag releas condit on the releas by israel of palestinian held in isra prison . in the secur council vote on monday , the us abstain , while the remain 14 member vote in favour . the us had previous block resolut call for a ceasefir , say such a move would be wrong while delic negoti for a truce and hostag releas were continu between israel and hama . but on thursday it tabl it own draft , which for the first time call for a ceasefir , mark a harden of it stanc toward israel . us nation secur council spokesman john kirbi said the us ' decis to let the resolut pass did not mean a `` shift in our polici `` . he said the us back a ceasefir but did not vote in favour of the resolut becaus the text did not condemn hama . speak at a press brief after the resolut wa pass , mr kirbi said : `` we have been veri clear , we have been veri consist in our support for a ceasefir as part of a hostag deal . that ' s how the hostag deal is structur , and the resolut acknowledg the ongo talk . '' un secretari gener antonio guterr said the resolut `` must be implement `` to secur a ceasefir and the `` immedi and uncondit releas of all hostag `` . mark lyall - grant , who wa the uk ambassador to the un from 2009 to 2015 , told bbc radio ' s 4 pm programm that the resolut meant israel wa now `` under an oblig , essenti , to stop it militari campaign for the next 15 day `` - the durat of the remaind of the muslim holi month of ramadan , which the text stipul for the ceasefir . he ad that the text wa legal bind on israel but not on hama , as the palestinian group is not a state . the us had previous been accus of use it power of veto to shield israel at the un . howev , it ha becom increasingli critic of israel over the escal death toll in gaza , where more than 32 , 000 peopl - mainli women and children - have been kill by israel ' s bombard , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . the us ha also press israel to do more to get aid deliv to gaza , where it say the entir popul is suffer sever level of acut food insecur . the un ha accus israel of obstruct aid ; israel ha blame the un , accus it of fail to carri out distribut . the current war broke out after hama gunmen burst through the border and attack isra commun , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , accord to isra talli , and take 253 into gaza as hostag . of those taken , 130 remain unaccount for follow a seri of releas , rescu and the recoveri of bodi . despit israel ' s decis to cancel a plan visit by it deleg to washington later thi week in the wake of the secur council resolut , mr kirbi ha said that schedul meet between isra defenc minist yoav gallant and us nation secur advis jake sullivan will continu as plan . `` we look forward to make it clear to the defenc minist that the unit state continu to stand with israel as they fight hama , '' he said at the press brief on monday .