isra pm benjamin netanyahu ha downplay the chanc of a truce in gaza after hama gave what it call a `` comprehens vision `` to mediat . mr netanyahu ' s offic said the propos were `` unrealist `` . hama want a perman end to the war and full isra withdraw from gaza . on thursday night gaza ' s hama - run health ministri said 20 peopl had been kill as they wait for aid . israel deni involv and accus arm palestinian of fire at the crowd . the incid took place at the kuwaiti roundabout on the southern outskirt of gaza citi , a known drop off point for the littl aid that reach northern gaza where the un say children are die of malnutrit and famin is loom . in it latest updat , the health ministri said 155 peopl were injur in the incid . peopl wound in the attack were lie on the floor of shifa hospit in gaza citi and medic team struggl to deal with the number and type of injuri they had , it said . in a statement the israel defens forc ( idf ) said it had facilit the passag of 31 aid truck to northern gaza . `` approxim one hour befor the arriv of the convoy to the humanitarian corridor , arm palestinian open fire while gazan civilian were await the arriv of the aid convoy , '' it said . the fire continu as a crowd loot the truck and some peopl were run over , the idf said , ad that it wa continu to review the incid . despit reject the latest hama ceasefir propos , mr netanyahu said an isra deleg would travel to qatar to discuss what israel want from a potenti agreement . he also approv plan for a militari oper in the southern gaza citi of rafah , where more than a million peopl from other part of gaza are shelter . the armi wa prepar for the evacu of civilian , he said . on thursday the idf said it plan to move displac palestinian in gaza to what it call `` humanitarian island `` in the middl of the strip . it is not clear what the `` island `` will look like , or how they will oper . but the militari suggest that aid and temporari hous would be provid . no timefram ha yet been given about when the oper could happen . the un and us have warn that a full - scale assault in rafah could be disastr but israel ha repeatedli signal it need for such an oper , insist hama can not be fulli remov in gaza without target rafah . on friday us secretari of state antoni blinken said the us need to see a clear and implement plan for ani rafah oper , includ for how to get civilian out of harm ' s way , and had not yet seen one . meanwhil a ship tow a barg load with 200 tonn of food suppli arriv off the gaza coast and began unload it cargo of rice , flour , legum , can veget and can protein . the us chariti behind the mission , world central kitchen , said two crate had been deliv to shore from the barg attach to the open arm salvag vessel , which ha stop offshor . the quickest , most effect way to get aid into the territori is by road . but aid agenc say isra restrict mean a fraction of what is need is get in . israel say it welcom the creation of a maritim corridor and that it is facilit the transfer of aid to gaza while it forc continu to fight hama . on friday , australia said it would resum fund to unrwa - the main unit nation aid agenc in gaza . australia and sever other donor paus fund two month ago when israel accus some of it staff of involv in the 7 octob attack on israel by hama . australian foreign minist penni wong said govern lawyer had advis that unrwa `` wa not a terrorist organis `` . canada , sweden and the eu have alreadi said they will resum fund to unrwa but it biggest donor , the us , is maintain a payment freez . ms wong urg israel to let more food into gaza . `` the australian govern ha been brief by the world food program that there are larg stock of food outsid of gaza ' s border , but there is no way to move it across the border into gaza and deliv it at scale without israel ' s cooper and we implor israel to allow more aid into gaza now , '' she said . israel ha said that truck contain aid have cross into gaza but have not been distribut and accus aid agenc of logist failur . the war began when hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 31 , 400 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say .