an isra air strike on a un school pack with displac palestinian in central gaza ha reportedli kill at least 35 peopl . local journalist told the bbc that a warplan fire two missil at classroom on the top floor of the school in the urban nuseirat refuge camp . video show the destruct and a number of bodi . israel ’ s militari said it had “ conduct a precis strike on a hama compound ” in the school and kill mani of the 20 to 30 fighter it believ were insid . gaza ’ s hama - run govern media offic deni the claim and accus israel of carri out a “ horrif massacr ” . the us ha call on israel to be `` fulli transpar `` in make inform about the strike public . the head of the un agenc for palestinian refuge ( unrwa ) , which run the school , describ the incid as `` horrif `` and said the claim that arm group might have been insid a shelter wa `` shock `` but could not be confirm . dead and wound peopl were rush to the al - aqsa martyr ’ hospit , in the nearbi town of deir al - balah , which ha been overwhelm sinc the isra militari began a new ground oper against hama in central gaza thi week . the bbc is work to verifi the report about the strike in nuseirat camp . local journalist and resid said it took place in the earli hour of thursday at al - sardi school , which is in a south - eastern area of the dens - popul , decad - old camp , where unrwa provid servic . unrwa said 6 , 000 displac peopl were shelter in the school complex at the time . mani school and other un facil have been use as shelter by the 1 . 7 million peopl who have fled their home dure the war , which ha last almost eight month . video share on social media show the destruct of sever classroom in one of the school ' s build , as well as bodi wrap in white shroud and blanket . “ i wa asleep when the incid occur . suddenli , we heard a loud explos and shatter glass and debri from the build fell on us , ” udai abu elia , a man who wa live at the school , told bbc arab ' s gaza today programm . “ smoke fill the air , and i couldn ' t see anyth . i didn ' t expect to make it out aliv . i heard someon call for survivor to come out from under the rubbl . i struggl to see as i stumbl over the bodi of the martyr . ” he ad : “ the situat ha becom extrem difficult , especi for children and the elderli . everyon is a target . the blood of the martyr ha not yet dri ; it stain the stair , wall , and bed . '' anoth man , jabr , said he “ woke up to the sight of bodi and [ human ] remain everywher ” , while a third who ask not to be name said the casualti includ `` elderli peopl , young individu , and children `` . resid initi said that more than 20 peopl were kill in the attack . later , an offici at al - aqsa hospit told a freelanc journalist work for the bbc that it had receiv 40 bodi from the school . gaza ’ s hama - run health ministri said 40 peopl were kill , includ 14 children and nine women , and 74 other were injur . the same death toll wa given by the director of the hama - run govern media offic , ismail al - thawabta . unwa ' s commission gener , philipp lazzarini , said in a statement on x , formerli twitter , that at least 35 peopl were kill and mani more injur . the agenc ’ s director of commun , juliett touma , told the bbc that `` the figur are come from our own unrwa colleagu on the ground `` . the bbc ha been review video and ha not yet seen conclus evid of civilian casualti at the scene of the strike . howev , there is footag show child casualti at al - aqsa hospit . us state depart spokesperson matt miller urg israel to be transpar over the strike . `` '' the govern of israel ha said that they are go to releas more inform about thi strike , includ the name of those who die in it . we expect them to be fulli transpar in make that inform public , '' he said . in a statement , the israel defens forc ( idf ) said jet had conduct a `` precis strike on a hama compound embed insid `` the school . an annot aerial photograph highlight classroom on two upper floor of the build , which the idf said were the “ locat of the terrorist ” . the idf said member of hama and palestinian islam jihad who took part in the 7 octob attack on southern israel , when around 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 251 other were taken hostag , had been oper in the build . “ befor the strike , a number of step were taken to reduc the risk of harm uninvolv civilian dure the strike , includ conduct aerial surveil , and addit intellig inform , ” it ad . later , idf spokesman lt col peter lerner told report that between 20 and 30 fighter had been use the school to plan and carri out attack , and that mani of them were kill in the strike . `` i ' m not awar of ani civilian casualti and i ' d be veri , veri cautiou of accept anyth that hama put out , '' he ad . he also said the idf had call off the attack twice in order to limit civilian casualti and accus hama and palestinian islam jihad of deliber use un facil as oper base . mr thawabta reject the idf ’ s claim , say : “ the occup use lie to the public opinion through fals fabric stori to justifi the brutal crime it conduct against dozen of displac peopl . ” mr lazzarini said the school wa hit “ without prior warn ” to hi agenc or the peopl shelter there . “ claim that arm group may have been insid the shelter are shock . we are howev unabl to verifi these claim , ” he ad . “ attack , target or use un build for militari purpos are a blatant disregard of intern humanitarian law . un staff , premis and oper must be protect at all time . ” mr lazzarini complain that more than 180 unrwa build had been hit sinc the war began despit their co - ordin be share with parti to the conflict , and that more than 450 displac peopl had been kill as a result . at least 36 , 650 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc israel launch a militari campaign in respons to the 7 octob attack , accord to the territori ' s health ministri , whose figur do not differenti between civilian and combat . medic also told afp and palestinian news agenc wafa that anoth pre - dawn strike on thursday kill six peopl at a hous in nuseirat camp . the idf meanwhil said troop had locat underground tunnel shaft and weapon in eastern area of bureij refuge camp - just west of nuseirat - and eastern deir al - balah , a day after it said they had taken `` oper control `` there . resid report intens bombard in the area on wednesday , while médecin san frontièr said at least 70 bodi - the major women and children - had been brought to al - aqsa hospit over the previou 24 hour . the idf also said on thursday that troop and aircraft had kill three suspect who had approach the gaza - israel border fenc in the rafah area , and that an isra soldier had been kill in battl in southern gaza . last month , there wa global outrag after an isra air strike , which the idf said target two senior hama offici , and a result fire reportedli kill dozen of palestinian at a tent camp for displac peopl near a unrwa logist base in the southern citi of rafah . the idf said the loss of life wa “ tragic ” and that it wa investig the possibl that ammunit store by hama could have caus a secondari explos . that incid prompt mediat to reviv their effort to broker a ceasefir and hostag releas deal between israel and hama . us presid joe biden outlin what he describ as an isra propos that had been present to hama . the first phase of the plan would last six week and includ a temporari truce that would see the releas of some of the hostag still be held in gaza in return for palestinian from isra jail . the second phase would includ a perman cessat of hostil . on thursday , the us , uk and 16 other countri with citizen among the hostag issu a joint statement call on the leader of israel and hama “ to make whatev final compromis are necessari to close thi deal and bring relief to the famili of our hostag ” . hama polit leader ismail haniyeh said on wednesday that the group would deal `` serious and posit `` with a propos base on an end to the war and a full isra withdraw from gaza . israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha insist he will not agre to a perman ceasefir befor hama is defeat and the hostag are releas . on wednesday , he declar the countri wa “ strive for total victori ” . addit report by georg wright in london