hope had been high over the past week follow talk in pari that there could be a new gaza ceasefir deal in place for the start of the islam holi month of ramadan next week . howev , while hama ha now sent a deleg to cairo for further negoti with egyptian and qatari mediat , israel ha not . thi look like a seriou new block . isra offici - quot in local media - demand clear answer from hama on key issu as well as a list of the surviv isra hostag who could be releas with an agreement . meanwhil , a senior hama offici , dr basem naim , told the bbc on sunday that `` practic , it is imposs to know who is still aliv `` becaus of continu isra bomb . `` they are in differ area with differ group . we have ask for a ceasefir to collect that data , '' he ad . dr naim went on to say that such `` valuabl inform `` about the hostag could not be given `` for free `` . he , and other senior hama figur , have also been continu to demand a full ceasefir and withdraw of isra troop from gaza , rather than a temporari truce . the us and region player with leverag will now be put pressur on both israel and hama tri to shore up recent progress on the potenti deal . thi would reportedli see some 40 isra hostag releas in exchang for about 10 time as mani palestinian prison be freed from isra jail . more than 130 hostag are still believ to be held by hama . isra offici have said that at least 30 of them are dead . over the cours of a propos 40 - day truce , there would be a surg in desper need aid enter into gaza . without a deal , there is a higher threat of a further spread of tension dure ramadan , which thi year is due to begin on 10 or 11 march , depend on the lunar calendar . israel is expect to impos restrict on access for palestinian to the holiest muslim site in occupi east jerusalem , the al - aqsa mosqu compound , cite it secur concern . the site - which is also the holiest place in judaism , known as templ mount - ha often been a flashpoint for violenc in the decad - old israel - palestinian conflict . hama is well awar of intern fear about a new conflagr and ha previous use al - aqsa to rais the stake . last week , in a televis address , the leader of the islamist group , ismail haniyeh , claim hama wa show flexibl in negoti , but also call on palestinian in the occupi west bank and jerusalem to march to the mosqu to pray on the first day of ramadan . intern pressur for a ceasefir deal ha ratchet up with the dire humanitarian condit in gaza where , accord to the un , hundr of thousand of peopl are face famin follow nearli six month of war . `` given the immens scale of suffer , there must be an immedi ceasefir for at least the next six week , which is what is current on the tabl , '' the us vice - presid kamala harri told an event in alabama . `` thi will get the hostag out and get a signific amount of aid in . '' `` peopl in gaza are starv . the condit are inhuman and our common human compel us to act , '' ms harri went on . her comment were some of the strongest languag use yet to describ the situat by a senior us govern offici and reflect the grow frustrat within washington - the closest alli of israel - about develop in the war . increasingli what is happen on the ground in gaza is hurt presid biden ' s presidenti re - elect campaign . in israel , there is also intens domest pressur on the war cabinet to agre a new deal from the famili of the hostag . thousand of isra join them for the last leg of a four - day solidar march , which began close to the gaza border at one of the site that wa a focu of the deadli 7 octob hama attack , and end in jerusalem on saturday night . they held up isra flag and poster of the hostag . speak at the ralli , sharon sharabi whose brother , eli , is still believ to be held in hama captiv , said : `` we ' ve lost four member of our famili , the sharabi famili - my famili , your famili . we do not intend - listen care , leader of israel - we do not intend to bring a fifth coffin here . ''