hundr of gaza ' s water and sanit facil have been damag or destroy sinc israel began militari action against hama , satellit analysi by bbc verifi ha found . damag to a major suppli depot ha also sever disrupt repair . the lack of clean water and flow of untreat sewag pose a seriou threat to health , say aid agenc . the israel defens forc told the bbc that hama cynic exploit civilian infrastructur for terror purpos . the destruct come despit israel ' s duti to protect critic infrastructur under the rule of war , unless there is evid site are be use for militari reason , say human right lawyer . clean water ha alway been a limit resourc in gaza and the territori ha larg reli on a system of borehol and desalin plant for it suppli . our analysi found that more than half of these vital facil have been damag or destroy sinc israel launch it retali in gaza after hama attack on 7 octob . we also found that four of the six wastewat treatment plant - crucial to prevent the build - up of sewag and the spread of diseas - have been damag or destroy . the two other have shut down becaus lack of fuel or other suppli , accord to one aid agenc . the plant were among more than 600 water and sanit facil that we analys , use a list of locat provid by gaza ' s coastal municip water util ( cmwu ) . in one satellit imag , of khan youni in the south of gaza , two damag larg water storag tank can be seen . the destruct of water and sanit facil ha led to `` disastr health consequ for the popul `` , said dr natali robert , execut director of medecin san frontier uk . `` the rate of diarrhoeal diseas have gone catastroph high , '' she said . in veri sever case , such diseas can kill young children and the vulner . rate of hepat a - found in contamin water and particularli danger for pregnant women - are also high , accord to the chariti . `` thi is kill peopl , '' dr robert said . there is a particular spike in diseas in rafah in the south where mani gazan have fled to , dr robert said , and a risk of cholera . there ha been widespread damag to build across gaza sinc hama attack israel on 7 octob . accord to the un , about 69 , 000 hous unit have been destroy and a further 290 , 000 damag . home are now `` veri unlik `` to have run water , accord to aid worker we spoke to . to carri out thi analysi we sought advic from expert at the un and human right watch on the best approach . for each site , we sourc the most recent high resolut satellit imageri and compar each shot with an imag taken prior to 7 octob . we then mark a facil as destroy or damag if the closest structur to the given co - ordin appear to be reduc to rubbl , partial collaps , or show other sign of damag . bbc verifi ha not distinguish between `` destroy `` and `` damag `` facil . thi is becaus without know the precis outlin of each facil , we can not say whether it ha been partli damag or complet destroy . water well usual consist of an underground borehol and electr pump , togeth with a small control room abov ground . howev , as the control room is not alway visibl or easili identifi we had to reli on analys the nearest visibl build when assess damag . of the 603 water facil we analys , 53 % appear to have been damag or destroy sinc 7 octob . a further 43 facil were in area that show some damag or where solar panel had been remov , but we were unabl to determin whether the water facil itself had been damag so these were not includ in our analysi . the latest avail satellit imag were acquir in march and april , and our analysi ha been ongo sinc april . the major of site identifi as destroy or damag are in northern gaza or in the area around the southern citi of khan youni . at one wastewat facil in bureij , in the centr of the strip , solar panel that power the plant had been obliter and sewag treatment tank appear to have alga grow on the surfac . not all damag is visibl from satellit imag , so our analysi may have miss some affect facil . some site also may not be fulli oper due to a lack of fuel . for exampl , the unicef desalin plant in deir al - balah - one of three larg seawat facil in gaza - can onli work at 30 % capac becaus of lack of fuel , unicef told the bbc . with most gazan now displac from their home , and live in tent camp , the build - up of sewag in the street is even more of a threat . `` the pump for sewag are not oper and the street are flood [ with it ] , '' said muhammad atallah , who work for the palestinian centr for human right . the conflict ha alreadi made water facil repair difficult for gaza ' s water author , but a strike on a key mainten warehous ha made it harder still . the build , in the neighbourhood of al - mawasi , wa sever damag in a missil strike on 21 januari . four peopl die and 20 other were injur , accord to the cmwu . monther shoblaq , the director gener of cmwu , told the bbc thi warehous , which act as a depot for both the cmwu and unicef , contain more than 2 , 000 item use for mainten , and wa the heart of the water and sanit servic in gaza . it destruct ha sever limit cmwu ' s abil to repair and maintain vital facil such as water pipelin , he said . the idf said the warehous wa not target , but that hama terrorist oper nearbi were struck and `` it is possibl that part of the warehous suffer damag as a result of the strike `` . we gave the idf a sampl of five other damag or destroy water site from our analysi . in one case , the idf deni there had been an air strike , in the four other case it said hama fighter or site were the actual target . `` hama store it weapon and ammunit within these civilian structur , construct terror infrastructur beneath them , and from them , launch it attack … the idf is locat and destroy these terror infrastructur , which have been discov , among other place , in and near the water facil in question . '' leila sadat , a former special advis on crime against human at the intern crimin court , told the bbc that facil critic to the surviv of civilian should be protect unless a militari bodi ha some concret evid to suggest otherwis . to assess war action in term of legal , you need to consid `` the pattern `` of those action , she said . `` you can ' t just look strike by strike … [ t ] hey [ the idf ] have hit water pipe , tank , reservoir , and infrastructur , '' she said . `` to take out over half of water and sanit would be veri difficult without intent do so . so the pattern is evid of either a reckless approach to civilian object or the intent destruct of them ; these were not all mistak , '' she ad . in respons to our find , sara elizabeth dill , an intern crimin and human right lawyer , said : `` what we are see is essenti sieg warfar and the total destruct of gaza , without regard for human life or human decenc , or ani attempt to compli with intern law . '' addit report by erwan rivault , joshua cheetham , benedict garman and deena easa what do you want bbc verifi to investig ?