effort have intensifi to secur a deal for a ceasefir in gaza and the releas of hostag , with talk resum in cairo on saturday . hama said it deleg wa travel in a `` posit spirit `` after studi the latest truce propos . `` we are determin to secur an agreement in a way that fulfil palestinian ' demand , '' it said . us secretari of state antoni blinken said `` take the ceasefir should be a no - brainer `` for the milit group . hama ' s negoti have return to the egyptian capit to resum long - run talk - broker by egypt and qatar - that would temporarili paus israel ' s offens in gaza in return for free hostag . in a statement releas last night , hama said it want to `` matur `` the agreement on the tabl , which suggest there are area where the two side still disagre . the main issu appear to involv whether the ceasefir deal would be perman or temporari . hama is insist ani deal make a specif commit toward an end to the war , but israel is reluct to agre while the group remain activ in gaza . it ' s thought the word be discuss involv a 40 - day paus in fight while hostag are releas , and the releas of a number of palestinian prison be held in isra jail . israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha repeatedli insist there will be a fresh militari ground oper in the southern gazan citi of rafah , even if a deal is agre . isra media report on saturday that hi posit remain unchang despit the latest round of talk . but the us - israel ' s biggest diplomat and militari alli - is reluct to back a new offens that could caus signific civilian casualti , and ha insist on see a plan to protect displac palestinian first . an estim 1 . 4 million peopl have taken shelter in rafah after flee the fight in the northern and central area of the strip . address the prospect of a truce on saturday , minist benni gantz , a member of israel ' s war cabinet , said : `` an offici respons to the outlin ha not yet been receiv . when accept - the war manag cabinet will meet and discuss it . until then , i suggest to the ' polit sourc ' and all decis - maker to wait for offici updat , to act calmli and not to get into hysteria for polit reason . '' the director of the us central intellig agenc ( cia ) , william burn , ha travel to cairo to help broker the latest talk , accord to two us offici who spoke to the bbc ' s us news partner , cb news . mr blinken ha also been a key figur in the negoti , and visit israel again thi week to meet mr netanyahu . speak on friday in arizona , mr blinken said `` the onli thing stand between the peopl of gaza and a ceasefir wa hama `` . so far , ceasefir talk have continu for month without a breakthrough . there hasn ' t been a paus in fight or a releas of hostag sinc the end of novemb . there have been moment in that time where a new agreement ha seem immin , but a deal ha fallen apart befor it could be sign . even in thi latest round of discuss , caution is need . a sourc familiar with the talk told the bbc that the negoti remain complex , and ani breakthrough could still take sever day . a sourc told the washington post that the us had urg qatar to expel hama ' s polit leadership , if the group continu to reject a ceasefir . on saturday , hundr of peopl gather in democraci squar in tel aviv call for the releas of hostag . rel of the hostag also gather at the kirya militari base in tel aviv to urg the govern to make a deal . some accus mr netanyahu of tri to undermin a propos truce , and other call for an end to the war . ayala metzger , daughter - in - law of 80 - year - old hostag yoram , said the govern must agre to end the war if that is the price for the releas of the hostag . the war began after hama and other palestinian milit group attack villag and militari base in southern israel , kill at least 1 , 200 peopl and take more than 250 hostag . dure the subsequ isra militari campaign in gaza , 34 , 654 palestinian have been kill and 77 , 908 wound , accord to figur from the hama - run health ministri .