starvat is be use as a weapon of war in gaza , the eu ' s foreign polici chief ha claim . josep borrel describ the lack of aid enter the territori as a `` manmad `` disast . a spanish ship carri desper need food suppli ha left cypru for gaza , but the un say thi can not replac the deliveri of aid by land . israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha meanwhil vow to press on with an offens in southern gaza . the quickest , most effect way to get aid into the territori is by road , but aid agenc say isra restrict mean a fraction of what is need is get in . attent ha instead shift toward altern rout includ sea and air drop . on tuesday , a un world food programm convoy use a land rout to deliv aid to northern gaza for the first time in three week . the truck use an isra militari road run along gaza ' s border fenc , jami mcgoldrick , un aid coordin for the occupi palestinian territori , told reuter . enough food for 25 , 000 peopl wa deliv to gaza citi , with wfp spokesperson shaza moghrabi say they were hope to `` scale up `` deliveri , but `` need access to be regular and consist `` . israel say it is not to blame for gaza ' s food shortag as it is allow aid through two cross in the south . but address the un secur council in new york on tuesday , mr borrel said the humanitarian crisi in the territori wa as a result of a lack of viabl land rout . `` we are now face a popul fight for their own surviv , '' he said . `` humanitarian assist need to get into gaza , and the european union is work as much as we can in order to make it possibl . `` [ the humanitarian crisi is ] manmad and when we look for altern way of provid support by sea , by air , we have to remind [ ourselv ] that we have to do it becaus the natur way of provid support through road is be ... artifici close . `` starvat is be use as a war arm and when we condemn thi happen in ukrain , we have to use the same word for what is happen in gaza . '' hi comment come after the un warn at least 576 , 000 peopl in gaza - one quarter of the popul - were one step away from famin . the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say at least 27 peopl , mani of them children , have die as a result of malnutrit and dehydr at hospit there in the last two week . current en rout to help is the spanish ship the open arm , which set sail from larnaca just befor 09 : 00 ( 07 : 00 gmt ) on tuesday tow a barg load with 200 tonn of food suppli . while it is at sea , palestinian work for world central kitchen ( wck ) will continu build a jetti at an undisclos locat on gaza ' s coast , which will be use to offload the aid . a us militari ship , gener frank s besson , is also sail toward the middl east carri equip to build a temporari pier , which wck say is unrel to it own project . israel ha welcom the creation of the maritim corridor and said it wa facilit the transfer of aid to gaza while it forc continu to fight hama . mr netanyahu reiter on tuesday that israel would press ahead with it militari campaign into rafah , gaza ' s most southerli citi locat near the border with egypt . `` we will finish the job in rafah while enabl the civilian popul to get out of harm ' s way , '' he said in a video address to a confer of the pro - israel aipac organis in washington on tuesday . meanwhil , the uk ' s foreign secretari , lord cameron , ha urg israel to open the major port of ashdod - one of the countri ' s three main cargo port locat just south of tel aviv - to seaborn aid deliveri destin for gaza . the war in gaza began when hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 31 , 180 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri there say . week of talk involv us , qatari and egyptian mediat have fail to bring about a ceasefir or hostag exchang deal .