isra forc have recov the bodi of one of the hostag from gaza , the israel defens forc ( idf ) ha said . the armi confirm that ron benjamin , 53 , wa found alongsid the bodi of three other hostag whose ident were confirm on friday . the 53 - year - old had been take part in a group cycl ride near the gaza border when the hama attack began on 7 octob . about 1 , 200 peopl were kill dure the unpreced attack when hama gunmen burst into israel . they took 252 other back to gaza as hostag . isra militari spokesperson rear adm daniel hagari said in a statement post on x that militari intellig found he wa kill on 7 octob . the militari said mr benjamin wa kill at the mefalsim intersect , and hi bodi wa `` abduct to gaza by hama terrorist `` . identif wa carri out on mr benjamin ' s bodi and hi famili have been inform . mr benjamin ' s famili told isra media that he had been take part in a group cycl ride near the gaza border when the hama attack began and he decid to drive home . the hostag and miss famili forum said he wa a famili man - a husband and father - of - two - who love cycl and `` use to go out for a ride everi saturday , just as he did on that fate saturday when he wa taken hostag from the kibbutz be ’ eri area `` . '' ron love travel in israel and around the world , and he love music , '' the group said . mr benjamin ' s bodi wa recov in the same oper that recov the bodi of three other hostag - shani louk , amit buskila , and itzhak gelerent . the idf said the three victim had been kill at an intersect near the site of the nova festiv massacr in southern israel , befor their bodi were taken to gaza . ms louk - a german - isra citizen - had been attend the festiv near the kibbutz re ' im when gunmen open fire and sent terrifi partygo flee through the desert . an imag of ms louk be parad through the street by arm fighter on a flatb truck wa circul on social media soon after the attack . in octob , her mother said the isra militari had confirm her daughter had die after a piec of her skull bone wa found . ms buskila wa a fashion stylist and social media influenc , who had been on the phone to her uncl while tri to hide when she wa kidnap on 7 octob . mr gelerent wa a father and grandfath who arriv at the nova festiv onli hour befor the attack began . under a deal agre in novemb , hama releas 105 hostag in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . it is not clear how mani of those unaccount for are still aliv . hama have not respond to the latest idf announc , but on friday the arm wing of hama said the captiv they hold would return onli through an `` honour exchang deal for our peopl `` . long - run talk in cairo aim at secur a truce and further hostag releas are current stall . on saturday even , hundr of peopl ralli in the isra capit to call on the author to agre to a ceasefir to bring the remain hostag home , hold fresh elect , and for prime minist benjamin netanyahu to step down . some of the protest includ rel of hostag still held in gaza . yotam cohen , whose brother nimrod , is be held hostag in gaza , told afp : `` we want to stop the bloodsh . '' he said : `` as day go , we see more and more hostag are return in bodi bag and more soldier are be kill in gaza . '' video and photo from tel aviv also show polic scuffl with protest , and use water cannon to dispers protest who had gather outsid the kirya militari headquart . after the 7 octob attack , israel launch an offens in gaza that ha kill more than 35 , 000 peopl , mostli civilian , accord to the hama - run health ministri . about 2 . 2 million palestinian are face chronic food shortag and are in urgent need of shelter and other assist , the un say . on friday , the first shipment of humanitarian aid arriv in gaza via a temporari float pier , but govern and intern group have warn that the maritim rout wa not as effect as land rout .