it wasn ' t mani day ago that israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu wa under enorm pressur . after seven aid worker from world central kitchen were kill by the isra armi in gaza on 1 april , us presid joe biden seem final to lose patienc with hi troublesom alli . on the same day , israel attack the iranian diplomat compound in damascu , kill a senior gener , at least six other offic , and violat legal convent that prohibit attack on embassi . israel claim , unconvincingli , that iran had forfeit that protect by turn the consular build it destroy into a militari outpost . iran promis it would retali , but previou attack on senior command had gener more word than action . outsid iran , the attack on damascu wa overshadow by the furi caus by the kill of the team from world central kitchen , a us - base chariti . the white hous issu a furiou statement from presid biden . he wa `` outrag and heartbroken `` . it wa not a standalon incid . israel wa not do enough to protect aid worker or palestinian civilian . in an angri call with the prime minist , he demand major concess . gaza should be flood with humanitarian aid . israel must open more border cross , as well as the contain port in ashdod , less than an hour ' s drive away from children starv to death in northern gaza . prime minist netanyahu promis that thing would chang . despit that , israel wa stall . as well as feel the heat from the white hous , mr netanyahu wa also under pressur from the ultranationalist extremist whose back in israel ' s parliament keep hi coalit in power . not onli are they oppos to flood gaza with aid . they believ the war ha present israel with a priceless opportun to re - settl jew in gaza . jewish settlement there were evacu and demolish by israel in 2005 as part of a unilater withdraw from the territori . by the end of last week , the us wa increas the pressur . on thursday , samantha power , the top us humanitarian offici , said it wa `` credibl `` that famin wa alreadi affect part of gaza . it wa appar to israel ' s friend as well as it enemi that it six - month sieg of gaza had creat the world ' s most urgent food crisi . there wa anoth burst of specul that the us would put condit on the use of the weapon it suppli to israel . on saturday morn , hour befor the iranian attack on israel , the new york time echo deepen outrag , especi among promin democrat in the us congress . it call for a paus in the suppli of weapon to israel and laid into benjamin netanyahu . under the headlin , militari aid to israel can not be uncondit , the paper ' s editori board slam mr netanyahu and the hardlin in hi govern for break `` the bond of trust `` with america . the us commit to israel , and it right to defend itself , did not mean that presid biden `` should allow mr . netanyahu to keep play hi cynic doubl game `` , it said . then iran ' s first - ever direct attack on israel offer the prime minist a lifelin . in a remark feat of militari co - oper , the us and other western alli help israel shoot down more than 300 drone and missil launch by iran . no arab leader ha been a sterner critic of israel ' s war in gaza than king abdullah of jordan . but jordan ' s air forc join the oper , down projectil head for israel . call for put condit on militari aid to israel were replac by resound express of solidar . prime minist netanyahu ha been present with new polit opportun . gaza is out of the headlin , for a day or two at least . but pressur on the prime minist ha chang . it ha not gone . israel ' s next move might redoubl it . presid biden ha made it veri clear what he think should happen next . israel should declar victori in thi episod , `` take the win `` , and not hit back . he declar , again , that america ' s support for israel wa `` ironclad `` . that fit in to hi consist polici sinc the hama attack on 7 octob . the presid and hi administr have work hard to stop a wider , all - out war in the middl east , even as they funnel massiv suppli of arm to israel that have been use to devast and deadli effect in gaza . sinc octob israel ha accept the weapon and the diplomat support that accompani them and ignor joe biden ' s increasingli desper and angri call to respect the law of war and protect civilian . just a few day after unpreced militari co - oper from it alli against iran , israel look onc again to be bent on ignor not just joe biden ' s advic not to retali , but veri similar sentiment from the other countri that help out on saturday night . just like joe biden , prime minist rishi sunak in britain and presid emmanuel macron in franc deploy combat aircraft , both condemn iran , and both have urg israel not to hit back . they are come up against long - held belief and instinct in israel . one is the deep convict that israel ' s surviv depend on respond to attack with overwhelm forc . anoth is benjamin netanyahu ' s view , express mani time over hi year in power , that iran is israel ' s most danger enemi , bent on the destruct of the jewish state . mani isra share that view . now , after year of enmiti sinc the islam revolut in 1979 , iran ha for the first time mount a direct attack on israel . a long clandestin war ha come out of the shadow . israel ha said the question is not if it will hit back , but when and how . the war cabinet ha been debat how to do it without ignit an all - out war . in the end , though , ani attack will gambl that iran doe not want all - out war either , and will respond accordingli . that is a danger assumpt . both side have alreadi badli misjudg the other ' s intent . onc again , benjamin netanyahu and hi govern are bent on ignor the wish of alli who have gone the extra mile to help israel against it enemi . hi ultranationalist alli are demand a crush attack on iran . one of them said israel should `` go berserk `` . at the same time the humanitarian catastroph continu in gaza . intern attent ha swung away from it but will return . israel ' s militari is still oper in gaza and still kill civilian . deadli violenc between palestinian and jewish settler in the west bank ha surg again . israel ' s border war with hezbollah could escal fast . iran ha vow to retali more strongli if israel attack . the chief of staff of it arm forc , hossein baqeri , said the attack on israel had been `` limit `` and promis a `` far greater `` respons if israel retali . the american have said they will not assist if israel attack iran . but it is hard to believ that joe biden ' s definit of an `` ironclad `` commit to israel ' s secur would keep the us on the sidelin if iran answer an isra attack with anoth of it own . the slide continu toward a wider war in the middl east and a deeper global crisi .