in video record by a palestinian rescuer , a shout come from under mound of smash concret . `` i ' m alma . '' `` don ' t help me first . help my mum and dad . and pleas help my brother tarazan . he ' s a babi , 18 month old . '' it ' s morn on 2 decemb 2023 , and 12 - year old alma jaroor ha been buri under the rubbl of a five - storey build in downtown gaza citi for over three hour . `` i want to see my brother and sister , '' she shout . `` i have miss them . '' but the rescuer reach alma first , and she clamber out - unaid - from between jag slab of concret and twist metal bar . she is coat in dust but ha no major injuri . they ask where her famili is . she point to the rubbl on her right and left . warn : thi articl contain detail some reader may find disturb three month on , alma tell the bbc her stori , at length and in detail . her uncl sami sit nearbi . she is shelter with him and hi famili in a tent in rafah , in southern gaza . her word are a torrent of horror and loss . `` i rememb wake up under the rubbl . i check my ipad , and saw it wa 09 : 00 . i hope my brother tarazan would still be aliv . i wa call out to him , and hold on to hope that one of them would be aliv . `` i could smell the blood . it wa drip on to me . i wa scream for anyon to rescu us . i wa hear other call out as well . '' but after alma wa rescu , she saw tarazan ' s remain . `` i lift the blanket that wa cover him . i found him in an unimagin state , '' she say , `` hi head sever . '' at thi she fall silent , haunt by what she can not unse . `` i wish for death after see my brother like that , '' she say . `` he wa onli 18 month old . what ha he done in thi war ? '' tarazan wa not her onli loss . her entir famili wa gone , kill side by side - her parent moham , 35 , and naeema , 38 ; brother ghanem , 14 , and kinan , 6 ; and sister reehab , 11 . alma ' s parent had tri hard to outrun israel ' s bombard and keep their children safe . she tell us the first area the famili fled to wa bomb , and the second . and in the third place , the bomb land on them . rel say the build where they were sleep wa brought down by an isra air strike . the isra armi told us it could not comment on thi claim without co - ordin for the build . `` we were happi togeth as a famili , '' alma say . `` we use to hug each other when we were scare . i wish i could hold them all . i didn ' t have enough time with them . '' and she is still wait to buri them . onli tarazan ' s bodi wa recov . `` there were 140 refuge [ gazan displac by the war ] in the build , and onli some of the bodi have been found , '' she say . `` my famili ' s bodi are decompos under the rubbl . i long to see them and give them a proper burial . '' at time , alma can forget - just for a moment - all she ha lost . she sit on the cold floor of the tent with her young cousin . they are fashion a kite from scrap of plastic and imagin . alma join in , chat and smile . she no longer cri all the time , she say , becaus she know that her parent are `` happi in heaven `` . she ha found comfort with her uncl sami ' s famili , but not safeti . like everi child in gaza , she could be kill at ani minut . especi vulner are those in rafah , where israel continu to threaten a ground assault . it is home to 1 . 4 million palestinian . the war in gaza wa spark by the hama attack on israel on 7 octob , which kill around 1 , 200 isra , most of them civilian . sinc then , the children of gaza have paid a terribl price . the unit nation children ' s agenc , unicef , say 13 , 000 children in gaza have been kill by israel sinc the war began , a rate of kill it describ as `` stagger `` . health ministri offici in the hama - run territori say that the overal death toll in the war is at least 31 , 923 peopl . the world health organ regard their figur as `` credibl `` and say the real figur could be even higher . israel say it doe all it can to minimis civilian casualti . palestinian counter that mani bomb have been drop on residenti build teem with the displac , kill famili like alma ' s . her rel share a photo with us . it show alma smile broadli , surround by a group of six young cousin . all are now dead , except for her . they were kill in the 2 decemb attack , along with her immedi famili . and how mani alma are there now , rob of their mother and father ? the war ha creat at least 20 , 000 orphan as of the end of februari , accord to preliminari inform gather by research from the palestinian centr for human right . it is an independ non - government organis support by the eu which work on the ground in gaza . the real number may be higher , accord to the centr , but that can ' t be confirm becaus of the difficulti and danger of access inform in gaza . on a patch of dirt , between row of tent , alma play hopscotch with her uncl sami ' s children , leap from squar to squar . she look happi and relax . it ' s anoth moment of forget . befor the war took everyth , she like to sing , and wa hope to becom a doctor - as her father want her to . `` i had dream that i want to achiev , '' alma say , `` but now i have no more dream . i feel pain in my heart and it will stay with me for the rest of my life , becaus they were my famili , my parent , my sister and brother . and they were all gone , in one night . '' all alma want is to escap from gaza and reach her grandmoth , who live abroad . `` i want to go to her , and hug her , and feel safe , '' she say . addit report by wietsk burema , goktay koraltan and haneen abdeen