in the moment when she is not in the tent care for the children , zouahra look out at the sea that form the western border of her world . on thi sunni day it is blue and when the sun set , gold and red shade will colour the horizon . it is the same sea that wash the beach of tel aviv to the north , and ebb and flood along all the coast of the mediterranean . and it is the sea from which , zouahra say , a shell from an isra gunboat brought death to her husband . `` he wa on hi way to the seasid where there were car and an aid convoy … it wa crowd , and the militari boat start fire at peopl . my husband wa hit in the head , '' she say . that wa on 9 februari - but zouahra , who now live in a section of a camp hous widow and orphan , did not find out immedi . the 26 - year - old mother had just given birth to her fourth child . at first , the young men who had been at the scene and knew the truth want to keep the news from zouahra . mahmoud wa just late they said . but she knew someth wa wrong . her brother - in - law arriv cri and shout that mahmoud wa dead . desper for the truth , she went to the hospit or , as she put it , `` to the end of the world `` - a phrase load with forebod - to find him . zouahra lean forward , lower her head and sob . see her mother ' s distress , three - year - old lana gentli touch her arm . then she softli pat the bodi of her babi brother moham sleep on her mum ' s lap . zouahra start to speak again . `` hi entir bodi wa connect to machin , and he felt freez cold . i couldn ' t talk to him . i tri , but he wasn ' t respond . `` he wa sleep … he went to get food for hi children and came back in a coffin . '' the famili were scatter by war . they live in gaza citi befor the fight and after it began they fled to the refuge camp at al - nusseirat in the centr of the gaza strip . that wa the end of mahmoud ' s job work as a labour for the pioneer food compani in gaza . from al - nusseirat , they were again uproot , flee south to rafah after the israel defens forc told them it wa a safe zone . zouahra live with other widow in a section of the al - mawasi refuge camp set asid for unaccompani women and children . her neighbour amina lost her husband and three children in an isra air strike on their home near khan youni . amina and her five - year - old son , ibrahim - who is also disabl - were pull aliv from the rubbl that buri the rest of the famili . anoth widow , amani jasser al - khawr , 32 , lost her husband , a policeman , and five of her children in an air strike in central gaza in octob - and now live in a shelter made of zinc panel . the wind rattl the panel , just as it whip the plastic sheet and cloth that cover zouahra and her children . they can see how she struggl . but although her shelter is flimsi and fli constantli settl on the children , the ground ha been swept and the famili ' s cloth flap on a wash line outsid . zouahra show photograph of her late husband - a handsom man , protect of hi famili . `` i don ' t know what to do without him . he wa the one provid for me and my children . he never made me need anyon … no - one care about us now , '' zouahra say . thi life pile indign on the widow . zouahra need nappi for the babi and for her disabl boy , mustafa . she speak of hi constant anxieti . `` he see someth and i can ' t get it for him . he keep cri and hit himself on the ground , ask for it , but i can ' t provid it . `` mustafa ha mani need that i can ' t afford . he keep pee himself and ask for thing that i can ' t give him . he ask for food , for juic , appl , and fruit , and i can ' t provid . '' a few day ago , anoth famili nearbi manag , somehow , to find a chicken . zouahra ' s children look on . they were besid themselv with long . then , three - year - old lana began to cri . but there wa noth to be done . the other peopl were lucki , or mayb had some money , and their children could eat . the widow of al - mawasi are wait for a new camp for unaccompani women and their children to be complet . there they hope for food , a place to shelter out of the wind - the same way they hope that the kill might stop so that no more will be taken from them . with addit report by haneen abdeen and alic doyard