news in the middl east move fast . one moment it is all about unpreced missil and drone attack between iran and israel . the next the headlin return to the fight and suffer in gaza . but policymak , analyst and militari leader are still absorb the extraordinari exchang of fire just day ago between two old adversari , one that arguabl came a small technolog failur away from trigger a devast intern conflict . it is worth consid how close they came to the edg and how deep the abyss that lay befor them . thi wa the first time iran and israel had attack each other directli . some analyst say the iranian attack wa the largest combin missil and drone assault ever - bigger than anyth russia ha level against ukrain . it wa certainli the first extern bombard of israel sinc saddam hussein ' s scud missil in 1991 . most of the 300 - plu iranian drone and missil were shot down or fail en rout . but i watch from our offic in jerusalem as the night sky wa lit up by isra air defenc tri to bring down the ballist missil fli overhead . all it would have taken is for one gp guidanc system to fail for a missil to land in an urban area at huge civilian cost . `` i don ' t think peopl realis how close we were that weekend , '' one senior western secur offici told me . `` it could have been a veri differ stori . '' yet some in the west think posit can be drawn from the attack on 13 april and israel ' s limit retali last week . they argu it wa a huge intellig success to predict the iranian strike , that the defenc of israel wa an outstand exampl of alli militari cooper , and that both iran and israel learn how to climb down the escalatori ladder . let ' s take the intellig oper first . i am told the us learn about iran ' s plan on the wednesday morn befor the attack on saturday even . and crucial , they discov the scale of iran ' s ambit . `` we got wind that iran ' s respons would be at the top end of expect , '' said one high - level western sourc . `` and that wa a bit of a shock . but it help galvanis the intern respons . '' crucial , it help the us persuad some countri in the gulf to join in israel ' s defenc , includ jordan and saudi arabia . their fear - onc they were awar of the scale of iran ' s plan - wa the risk of an escalatori region war if israel had no choic but to retali hard . so a mixtur of good intellig gather and privat iranian signal ( which the us deni took place ) gave israel and it alli time to prepar . the role play by jordan and saudi arabia are still not fulli clear . jordan ha admit shoot down iranian drone in self - defenc to protect it sovereignti . it is understood jordan also allow isra warplan some access to it airspac . the saudi are thought to have provid inform to the us and kept an eye on ani threat from iranian - back arm group in yemen . the key point is it work . the us , british , french , jordanian and saudi militari show they could oper togeth on collect air defenc . `` it wa an extraordinarili success tactic oper , '' said the secur sourc . `` the intellig cu it up , we had sight of the whole area and we work togeth . no other group of nation can do that in the world . '' some have also argu thi could be the start of a new region allianc against iran . to other , though , that is a typic secur and militari perspect , one that celebr technolog success while miss the bigger polit pictur . the more pessimist analyst argu that if iran want to inflict signific damag on israel , it could have refrain from give advanc warn , broaden it target , launch a second wave of attack - or even order hezbollah to mount a larg attack from lebanon . emil hokayem from the intern institut for strateg studi think tank said the oper reveal how much israel had to reli on alli for it defenc . he also wonder whether israel would have enough air defenc missil need for a higher intens conflict . `` as we ' ve seen in the war between ukrain and russia , it matter how much of the good stuff you have in stock , '' he said . mr hokayem also dismiss the idea thi crisi mark the begin of a new region militari allianc . `` we ' re not at the cusp of a new era , '' he said . `` arab state have cooper becaus primarili they want to avoid a region confront . and they want to demonstr they ' re good partner to their western alli . it ' s also simpli a matter of nation sovereignti . they don ' t want stuff fli and explod in their sky . '' the second claim by optimist is that iran and israel have learn from thi experi . they say both countri - for onc - commun their intent accur ; they realis they could de - escal without lose face ; and they both had a scare that will re - establish mutual deterr . iran may have attack israel but it warn alli of it intent and signal earli it wa a one - off . israel show it could retali modestli , target air defenc in central iran and use a small attack to signal a bigger capabl , name that it could hit iran where and when it want . i am told iran may even have been tip off about israel ' s retali . certainli iran signal from a veri earli stage it did not intend to respond to israel ' s counter - attack . both side certainli will have learn militari lesson . `` the attack probabl help iran identifi the rel strength and the weak of the isra air defenc system , '' said the institut for the studi of war . israel and the us will also have a greater understand of iran ' s tactic strategi . the counter - argument is that both iran and israel broke a taboo , that direct attack is now an easier option . in an essay for foreign affair , afshon ostovar from the foreign polici research institut say the scale of iran ' s attack show it is no longer convinc by a polici of restraint . `` the notion that iran intent launch a weak attack doe not stand up to scrutini , '' he write . `` iran hope to land an impress blow against israel . '' mr hokayem challeng the idea iran and israel have learn to understand each other . he cite israel ' s failur to realis the consequ of it decis to kill sever elit iranian revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) command in iran ' s consul in damascu . `` these two countri don ' t talk to each other . instead , they just signal through militari postur and third parti . these thing can go badli quit quickli . wrongli read the other side ' s intent - or risk appetit - is a featur rather than a bug in the relationship . '' there is also sceptic either side have re - establish deterr . amo harel , defenc analyst for the isra newspap haaretz , said : `` the two countri breach the previou rule of the game , with limit costsâ €¦ the balanc of deterr between the two countri ( is ) unsettl . '' perhap the key lesson learn by mani in thi crisi wa just how close the region had come to full scale war . `` it wa just a huge relief , '' one western diplomat told me . `` it could have gone so differ . ''