at least 45 peopl have been kill , includ women and children , in an isra air strike on a camp for displac palestinian in the southern gaza citi of rafah , the hama - run health ministri say . video from the scene in the tal al - sultan area on sunday night show a larg explos and intens fire burn . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said it had kill two `` senior hama terrorist `` and that it wa `` investig the circumst of the death of civilian in the area `` . prime minist benjamin netanyahu call it a `` tragedi `` . hour earlier , hama had fire eight rocket from rafah toward tel aviv - the first long - rang attack on the central isra citi sinc januari . some 800 , 000 peopl have fled rafah sinc the start of an isra ground oper there three week ago , but hundr of thousand are still believ to be shelter there . in a separ develop on monday , egypt ' s militari said it wa investig a shoot near the border with gaza , just south of rafah , in which a member of the egyptian secur forc wa kill . the idf , whose forc have seiz control of the gazan side of the rafah border cross , said it wa discuss a shoot incid with egyptian author . the palestinian red crescent said sunday ’ s air strike target tent for displac peopl near a un facil in tal al - sultan , about 2km ( 1 . 2 mile ) north - west of the centr of rafah . graphic footag show a number of structur ablaz next to a banner say “ kuwaiti peac camp ' 1 ' ” , as well as first respond and bystand carri sever bodi . '' we were sit at the door of the hous safe . suddenli we heard the sound of a missil , ” wit fadi dukhan told reuter news agenc . “ we ran and found the street cover in smoke , '' he said , ad that he and other saw a girl and a young man who had been kill by the blast . abe moham al - attar said hi brother and sister - in - law were kill , leav their children as orphan . '' the [ isra ] armi is a liar . there is no secur in gaza . there is no secur , not for a child , an elderli man , or a woman , ” he said . the idf said in a statement on monday afternoon that israel ’ s militari advoc gener , yifat tomer - yerushalmi - who is charg with make sure the militari act in accord with the law - had order an investig into the incid . isra air forc ( iaf ) aircraft had “ conduct an intellig - base strike in the area of rafah against signific terror target in the area of rafah ” on sunday , it said . the idf identifi them as yassin rabia , the chief of staff of the arm group ’ s fighter in the occupi west bank , and khale nagar , anoth senior offici in the west bank wing , who it accus of direct and carri out deadli attack against isra soldier and civilian . “ befor the strike , a number of step were taken to reduc the risk of harm uninvolv civilian dure the strike , includ conduct aerial surveil , the deploy of precis munit by the iaf , and addit intellig inform , ” the statement ad . “ base on these measur , it wa assess that there would be no expect harm to uninvolv civilian ... the idf regret ani harm to uninvolv civilian dure combat . ” isra govern spokesman avi hyman told the bbc : “ it appear from initi report that somehow a fire broke out , and that sadli took the live of other . '' in a speech on monday morn , maj gen tomer - yerushalmi describ the incid in rafah as “ veri difficult ” . the hama - run health ministri said on monday afternoon that at least 45 peopl , includ 23 women , children and elderli , had been kill in the strike on the camp . a senior offici in gaza ’ s hama - run civil defenc agenc , mohammad al - mughayyir , meanwhil told afp that the agenc ’ s rescu worker had seen “ char bodi and dismemb limb ” , as well as “ case of amput , wound children , women and the elderli ” . médecin san frontièr said overnight that 15 bodi and dozen of casualti had been brought to a trauma stabilis point which the chariti support . “ we are horrifi by thi deadli event , which show onc again that nowher is safe . we continu to call for an immedi and sustain ceasefir in gaza , ” msf ad . a spokeswoman for the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa - the largest humanitarian organis in gaza - said it had been veri difficult to commun with it team on the ground in rafah . “ but what we do know is that there wa a seriou incid that took place quit close to one of the largest unrwa build in the north - west of rafah . we ’ re talk about dozen of peopl who have been kill and mani other injur , ” juliett touma told the bbc . “ no place is safe in gaza . no - one is safe , includ aid worker . ” the head of the hama - run govern media offic , ismail al - thawabta , said the camp wa away from recent militari action and that the idf had `` call on citizen and displac person to go to these safe zone `` . howev , the idf said : `` the strike did not occur in the humanitarian area in al - mawasi , to which the idf ha encourag civilian to evacu . '' french presid emmanuel macron said he wa `` outrag `` by what had happen . '' these oper must stop , '' he post on x , formerli twitter . `` i call for full respect for intern law and an immedi ceasefir . '' qatar meanwhil warn that the strike could complic it mediat effort to reach a ceasefir and hostag releas deal . hour befor sunday ' s strike , air raid siren sound around tel aviv as central israel came under attack by hama rocket , fire from south - eastern rafah . the eight rocket were mostli intercept by air defenc system or fell in field . a hous wa damag north of tel aviv . the barrag highlight the threat hama still pose to peopl across israel , although there were no report of injuri . it also illustr the challeng the idf face as it move further into southern gaza to oust hama from what it call it “ last major stronghold ” . the militari wing of hama said it had act in respons to `` the massacr of civilian `` . isra militari oper have continu in rafah despit a rule on friday by the intern court of justic ( icj ) . the un ' s top court said that “ in conform with it oblig under the genocid convent , israel must immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part ” . isra offici said over the weekend that the word did not rule out all militari action . `` israel ha not and will not carri out militari oper in the rafah area that creat live condit that could caus the destruct of the palestinian civilian popul , in whole or in part , '' nation secur advis tzachi hanegbi said in a statement . about 1 . 5 million peopl had been take refug in rafah befor 6 may , when israel began what it call “ target ” ground oper in eastern area of the citi to destroy the last remain hama battalion and rescu hostag it believ are be held there . the un estim that more than 800 , 000 peopl have fled in respons to order from the idf to evacu to an “ expand humanitarian area ” stretch from al - mawasi , just north - west of rafah , to the southern citi of khan youni and the central town of deir al - balah . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . at least 36 , 050 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the hama - run health ministri .