most of the front page focu on israel ' s possibl respons to iran ' s unpreced attack on it territori . the time and the sun pictur the launch of the first missil from iran , while the guardian show an anti - missil system in oper in southern israel . the daili mail say israel wa `` reportedli pull back from the brink of immedi retali `` by us presid joe biden . a uk govern sourc tell the i that minist are keen to see a de - escal , but acknowledg that israel ha a right to self - defenc . the financi time quot an isra sourc as say the decis face israel ' s five - person war cabinet - includ prime minist benjamin netanyahu - is whether to `` go big `` against iran , or to respond in a more measur way . in an editori , the daili express say onli a `` devast `` respons against iran will reduc the chanc of further escal . write in the time , roger boy say the geo - polit card have been reshuffl and the shadow war between the two countri is spill out into the open . he say that israel ' s fightback cost it north of $ 1 billion ( £ 805m ) and show it relianc on it main secur backer , for intellig and missil defenc . the sun say at least four raf `` top gun `` engag in the biggest air fight sinc the falkland . the paper say typhoon fighter took out drone bound for israel , after scrambl from a militari base in cypru . the guardian say the uk ' s respons wa well - consid , with prepar go on for sever day last week . the time say the ministri of defenc ha releas few detail about the latest engag due to nervous in govern over the uk ' s involv . but the paper say rishi sunak may give more inform later today . the time also say it ' s seen leak document which reveal that britain ha enter talk to replic the rwanda scheme with armenia , ivori coast , costa rica and botswana . the paper say the countri were approach by govern offici , despit concern rais by the foreign offic about each of them . the daili telegraph say it ' s seen anoth set of document set out how the uk ' s agreement with rwanda is design to incentivis the countri to take upward of 30 , 000 migrant . the paper say that would cost the uk £ 5 billion over five year . the head of britain ' s biggest cancer chariti tell the guardian that tobacco compani are lobbi mp and peer in an effort to derail rishi sunak ' s bid to phase out smoke . the legisl , which bar anyon born after 2009 from buy cigarett , will be debat in the common tomorrow . michel mitchel from cancer uk hail the bill as `` world - lead `` but explain to the paper that industri figur are seek to persuad politician to back exempt , includ for cigar . the daili star say book boffin have trigger a tempest by suggest william shakespear could have been a woman . the paper say the london librari is host a panel discuss - after the releas of a book from an american literari critic on the matter . the time say one author ha written to the librari in condemn - say it shouldn ' t be promot `` a hoari conspiraci theori `` . the librari ha not comment . sign up for our morn newslett and get bbc news in your inbox .