six polic offic have been injur - includ one who wa bitten on the arm - at a pro - palestinian demonstr outsid a glasgow defenc equip factoryup to 50 protest block the govan entranc to the thale site , a compani that produc part for militari drone , earli on wednesday . they were call for the the uk to end arm export to israel and an immedi ceasefir in gaza . four demonstr - three men age 18 , 28 and 29 , and a 21 - year - old woman - were arrest and charg dure what appear to be minor disturb . the protest later move away from the factori entranc and continu their demonstr further down the street . two of the offic were treat at hospit . one wa discharg after treatment but the other wa kept in for further assess . ch insp derrick johnston said : “ we have a legal duti to protect the right of peopl who wish to peac protest as well as those affect by protest activ , howev offic were met with an unaccept level of hostil and resist today . “ one of our offic wa bitten , assault are not part of the job and will not be toler , and we were fortun abl to arrest the individu respons . “ when polic ani protest our prioriti are to ensur the safeti of protest , the public and polic offic involv as well as prevent crimin behaviour or disord and deescal tension . '' thale is involv in produc the watchkeep drone with isra defenc compani elbit system for use by the british armi . watchkeep wa model on elbit ' s herm 450 drone , which is believ to have been use extens over gaza by the isra defenc forc and which wa report by the haaretz newspap to have been respons for the strike on a world central kitchen convoy that kill seven aid worker in april . uk foreign secretari lord cameron ha so far rule out halt arm sale to israel . speak on the bbc ' s sunday with laura kuenssberg programm , lord cameron said such a move would onli strengthen hama . he said while he would not support a major ground offens in the gazan citi of rafah , the uk would not copi us plan to stop some arm sale . the uk govern doe not directli sell arm to israel but grant licens to weapon compani base on legal advic . in contrast , the us use a less restrict govern - to - govern deal to sell arm . on wednesday it emerg the white hous ha told congress it want to send more than $ 1bn ( £ 800m ) in new weapon to israel . the countri launch a militari campaign to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 35 , 170 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , includ 82 in the past 24 hour , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri .