hama ' s polit leader ismail haniyeh ha confirm that three of hi son and four of hi grandchildren were kill in an air strike in gaza . hama - link media said the car hi son were travel in wa hit in al - shati camp near gaza citi . haniyeh said that the incid would not chang hama ' s demand in talk aim at reach a ceasefir deal . israel ' s militari said the son were member of hama ' s militari wing - a claim deni by haniyeh . the group wa reportedli on it way to a famili celebr to mark the first day of the muslim holiday of eid . haniyeh told the broadcast al jazeera that three son - hazem , amir , and muhammad - had remain in gaza dure the war . a statement from hama later said four of haniyeh ' s grandchildren - mona , amal , khale and razan - were among those kill in what they call the `` treacher and cowardli `` strike . haniyeh said he heard the news as he wa visit wound palestinian who had been taken for treatment to the qatari capit , doha , which is where the hama leader live . `` the enemi will be delusion if it think that target my son , at the climax of the [ ceasefir ] negoti and befor the movement send it respons , will push hama to chang it posit , '' he told al jazeera . in comment report on hama ' s telegram channel , he thank god for the `` honour `` bestow on him by what he call the `` martyrdom of hi children and grandchildren `` . israel ' s militari said it had `` elimin three hama militari wing oper in the central gaza strip `` , ad that they were the son of ismail haniyeh . the statement did not mention the report death of haniyeh ' s grandchildren . speak to reuter on thursday , haniyeh deni that hi son were hama fighter . as intern pressur to reach a ceasefir deal grow , us presid joe biden ha sent the head of the cia , william burn , for the latest round of talk in cairo . the latest propos , which hama say it is analys , reportedli includ the releas of 40 isra hostag be held in gaza in return for 900 palestinian from isra jail . haniyeh is wide consid hama ' s overal leader and ha been a promin member of the movement sinc 1980 . he wa elect head of hama ' s polit bureau in 2017 and the us depart of state design him a terrorist in 2018 . these are not the first member of haniyeh ' s famili to have been kill in the war . anoth son wa reportedli kill in februari , while hi brother and nephew were kill in octob , follow by a grandson in novemb . hama - led gunmen attack israel on 7 octob , kill 1 , 200 peopl and take more than 250 hostag . israel say that of 130 hostag still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 000 gazan , the major of them civilian , have been kill dure israel ' s offens in gaza sinc the octob attack , the hama - run health ministri say .