israel ' s armi say it ha found the bodi of a 14 - year - old shepherd in the occupi west bank , a day after he went miss . benjamin achimeir had taken a flock of sheep out to graze from malachi hashalom , a settler outpost near ramallah on friday morn . pm benjamin netanyahu call achimeir ' s death a `` heinou murder `` . a palestinian man wa shot overnight dure an isra search for the teenag . it is not clear whether the man - jehad abu alia , 26 - wa shot by an arm settler or an isra soldier . isra media report achimeir left `` gal farm `` in the settler outpost of malachei shalom earli on friday , and had not been seen sinc . he had been graze sheep , and the sheep return to the farm without him , polic said . achimeir ' s sister hannah , quot by afp news agenc , said he wa familiar with the area . `` the heinou murder of the boy ... is a seriou crime , '' mr netanyahu said in a statement react to the teenag ' s bodi be found near malachi hashalom . isra forc `` are in an intens pursuit after the heinou murder and all those who collabor with them `` , he ad . separ , israel ' s defenc minist warn against reveng attack follow achimeir ' s death . post on social media , yoav gallant wrote : `` let the secur forc act quickli in the hunt for the terrorist - reveng action will make it difficult for our fighter in their mission - the law must not be taken into one ' s own hand . '' overnight angri settler , arm with gun and stone , rampag through a villag in the west bank dure an isra search for the teenag . hous and car in al - mughayyir , near ramallah , were set ablaz as thousand of peopl took part in the search for achimeir , said israel ganz , head of the binyamin region council which provid servic to isra settlement in the area . isra troop later interven . the israel defens forc ( idf ) say it troop , and not settler , open fire at stone - throw palestinian as `` violent disturb erupt at sever point in the area `` . troop manag to remov the settler who had enter the villag , it said . `` as of thi moment , the violent riot have been dispers and there are no isra civilian present within the town , '' the idf said . the palestinian prime minist , mohammad mustafa , ha condemn the attack . foreign govern includ israel ' s closest alli , the us , have repeatedli rais concern over a surg in settler violenc against palestinian in the west bank sinc israel began it militari campaign against hama in gaza . hama ' s deadli attack on octob 7 , which trigger israel ' s militari action , kill some 1 , 200 peopl , mostli civilian . hama gunmen also took more than 250 peopl hostag - israel say that of 130 hostag still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 600 gazan , the major of them civilian , have been kill dure israel ' s retaliatori campaign , the hama - run health ministri say . israel ha built about 160 settlement hous some 700 , 000 jew sinc it occupi west bank and east jerusalem in the 1967 middl east war . the intern commun consid the settlement illeg , though israel disput thi . the palestinian health ministri say at least 460 palestinian have been kill by isra forc or settler in the west bank sinc 7 octob . isra sourc say at least 13 isra have been kill there by palestinian in the same period .