while the media ' s glare in the middl east thi past week wa divert to iran ' s dramat missil and drone attack on israel , there ha been no let - up in fight in gaza . dozen of palestinian were kill daili - includ mani children , accord to figur from the hama - run health ministri . it now say israel ha kill more than 34 , 000 peopl in gaza sinc the start of the war . as israel ' s forc continu with their effort to destroy hama , they have conduct small - scale , often deadli oper , from the top to the bottom of the territori over the past week . on tuesday , in the middl of gaza , rel clutch limp and bloodstain bodi of small boy and girl rush from al - maghazi refuge camp to al - aqsa martyr ' hospit in nearbi deir al - balah . medic at the hospit said that at least 12 peopl were kill and some 30 injur by shell in al - maghazi . `` they were play in the street . whi were they struck ? they weren ' t in ani posit close to isra forc , '' one man told the bbc . anoth ad : `` they were just play . they were in the market with peopl come and go normal . '' israel ' s militari ha not comment on what happen there , but thi week in gaza the central refuge camp have been it main focu . it said it wa `` elimin terrorist and destroy terrorist infrastructur `` such as attack tunnel and militari compound use by arm hama fighter in `` precis `` action . after isra forc were report to have left anoth camp , nuseirat , late on wednesday , resid began trickl back to inspect the damag to their home . `` we have no place to stay , 90 % of the hous are destroy , '' one father told us despairingli as he pick hi way through the new pile of rubbl . in the veri north of gaza , israel ' s tank roll back into beit hanoun , which troop had left week earlier . israel said it wa target hama and islam jihad oper base at school where displac famili were live . local talk of men be strip and detain . footag ha also emerg of isra strike in part of gaza citi , in the north , and rafah , on the border with egypt , where hundr of thousand of palestinian live in tent after flee the fight elsewher . isra defenc analyst say that the militari is carri out target oper against hama , in line with a switch to lower - intens fight that wa agre with the us . earlier thi month , israel withdrew most ground forc from gaza , leav just one brigad to secur a line that split the enclav into two part - north and south . while it ha sinc been announc that two reservist brigad are be call up , and some soldier have been deploy across the border , the prevail opinion is that a plan ground offens in rafah is still some way off . `` i don ' t think anyth is immin , '' say prof chuck freilich , a former isra deputi nation secur advis , now base at the institut for nation secur studi in tel aviv . `` i don ' t think there ' s the forc there for conduct a major oper in rafah . '' israel ha promis to root out remain hama battalion in rafah - the one gazan citi where it ha not yet launch a ground offens . it believ that some of the remain 130 - plu hostag snatch from southern israel dure the deadli hama attack on 7 octob , which also kill more than 1 , 200 peopl , are held there . but prof freilich say for `` the full - on attack that peopl were talk about you ' d need two thing : to move out all the refuge and then to call up some of those reserv `` . `` between those , it ' s at least a coupl of week . and now there ' s the [ week - long jewish ] passov holiday . '' the us and other alli point out that a larg - scale invas could deepen an alreadi dire humanitarian crisi . amid miser live condit and the continu threat to rafah , mani gazan stuck there long to return home to the north of the territori . but on monday , israel ' s militari renew warn for them not to make the journey , a day after wit said it forc had open fire on crowd head along a main coastal road . kill five peopl . the idf did not comment directli on that incid , but an isra militari spokesman said afterward that palestinian should stay in southern gaza becaus the north is a `` danger combat zone `` . `` we have dreamt of return home sinc we left in the earli month of the war , '' amr daoudi told us back in rafah . `` but for now we have put it out of our thought . '' more than six month of fight have flatten vast tract of the north . israel ' s restrict on aid have also left some 300 , 000 who remain there through the war on the brink of famin , accord to the unit nation . intern pressur on israel in the wake of the kill of seven aid worker from us chariti world central kitchen on 1 april led to a string of announc on increas relief to gaza , notabl open up the ashdod commerci port and a new northern cross . while aid concern have been overshadow , in the past week , by fear of a wider region war , there have been constant updat on develop - isra defenc offici declar the arriv of shipment of flour destin for newli reopen bakeri , for exampl . anecdot evid , includ social media footag of grill meat be sold in jabalia camp for the first time in month , ha also circul , suggest food is becom more easili avail . howev , aid agenc say that far more need to be done to revers critic shortag . as the un launch a flash appeal to rais $ 2 . 8bn ( â £ 2 . 3bn ) in fund , mainli for gaza , a senior offici from it humanitarian offic complain of linger access problem , particularli to reach the north . `` we are deal with thi danc where we do one step forward , two step backward ; or two step forward and one step backward , '' say andrea de domenico , who head the un humanitarian offic for palestinian territori . if israel ' s respons to iran ' s recent strike is now over , draw a line under the latest round of violenc between these two old enemi , the media and foreign player are like to increas their scrutini of go - on in gaza onc again . alreadi , we got a hint of thi when the uk foreign secretari david cameron came to express solidar with israel and tri to reduc tension after the iranian attack of 13 - 14 april . `` the real need is to refocu back on hama , back on the hostag , back on get the aid back in , back on get a paus in the conflict in gaza , '' he said , ahead of meet with isra and palestinian leader . for now , intern mediat effort to secur a new truce have larg stall . the main obstacl remain that israel will discuss a temporari halt to bring home hostag but will not stop fight until hama is elimin . hama say it will not releas the hostag without a path to end the war . for ordinari gazan struggl just to surviv and isra desper to bring home love one trap in captiv , the best hope now could come from a new diplomat thrust . without it there is the threat of a linger war which carri a huge cost to human and constantli risk spark further destabilis conflict in an alreadi volatil part of the world .