israel ' s attack on iran wa not the fierc respons that us presid joe biden and other western leader had fear . they have been urg israel to draw a line under the danger seri of event that start with israel ' s assassin of a senior iranian gener in damascu on 1 april . more than six month after the hama attack on israel , war continu in gaza and ha spread to the area either side of the lebanon - israel border and to the gulf . the fear is that the middl east is on the brink of an all - out war , with global as well as region danger . the iranian are play down the signific of what ' s happen in isfahan . initi report said there had been no attack . later , an analyst on state tv said air defenc had knock out drone that had been launch by `` infiltr `` . offici media outlet have post jokey photo of miniatur drone . israel wa respond to the attack last saturday from iran . despit year of enmiti and threat it wa the first time sinc the establish of the islam republ in 1979 that iran had launch a direct strike from it territori onto israel ' s . dure that attack iran launch more than 300 missil and drone . almost all of them were destroy by israel ' s air defenc , augment by forc from the us , uk and jordan . the iranian had made their intent clear , give israel and it alli time to prepar themselv , and quickli issu a statement at the un in new york that their retali wa over . mr biden urg israel to `` take the win `` but israel insist it would hit back . from the outset , thi crisi ha shown how badli iran and israel understand each other . both miscalcul , deepen the crisi . israel seem to believ that iran would not respond with anyth stronger than outrag when it kill gener moham reza zahedi in damascu . it air strike flatten the consul at the iranian diplomat compound in damascu , kill six other , includ anoth gener . iran announc it regard the attack as a strike on it own territori . israel claim the premis were not protect by diplomat convent as the iranian islam revolutionari guard corp had turn them into a militari post . iran , and inde western alli of israel , did not accept a unilater reclassif of the build ' s statu - and the govern in tehran hope israel would agre to a draw a line after it respons . that wa anoth seriou miscalcul . if the attack on isfahan is not follow up with more attack , then the immedi tension will eas . what happen overnight could be isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ' s attempt to respond , without alien mr biden ani more than he ha alreadi . if thi is it , anoth question is whether it will be enough for the former gener in israel ' s war cabinet who are believ to want a strong respons to , as they see it , restor israel ' s capac to deter it enemi . mr netanyahu ' s ultranationalist coalit alli have also demand a fierc retali from israel . the nation secur minist itamar ben gvir said that the isra need to `` go berserk `` when iran attack . in a social media post , he describ the isfahan strike as `` feebl `` . the best option for the region , in the opinion of western govern , is for both iran and israel to draw a line under the saga . howev , even if thi is the end of thi stage of thi crisi , new preced have been set . iran ha hit israel in a direct attack , and israel ha respond with it own direct attack . that is a chang in what are often refer to in the region as the `` rule of the game `` govern the long conflict between iran and israel . the long clandestin war between the two countri ha come out of the shadow . in the process iran and israel have shown that for all the obsess attent they devot to each other , they are not good at read each other ' s intent . in a highli combust part of the world , that is not encourag .