a senior isra offici ha said he expect the war against hama in gaza to continu for at least the rest of thi year . '' the fight in gaza will continu for at least anoth seven month , ” the prime minist ’ s nation secur advis , tzachi hanegbi , told israel ' s kan public radio . he also said israel ’ s militari had taken control of 75 % of the buffer zone along the gaza - egypt border , as it press ahead with an assault on the southern citi of rafah . resid of rafah meanwhil report that there had been more isra air strike and that tank had mount raid in central and western area befor retreat . a senior world health organ ( who ) offici also warn that rafah ’ s last hospit wa bare function and that a `` full incurs `` by isra troop could lead to it closur and a `` substanti `` number of death . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said on tuesday that troop were oper in a “ veri target ” way against hama ’ s remain battalion in rafah , from which more than one million palestinian have fled over the past three week . the us govern also said it did not believ “ a major ground oper ” wa under way , which could trigger a chang in it polici on militari aid to israel . israel ha insist that it must take rafah to achiev victori in the war trigger by hama ’ s unpreced attack on the countri on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . at least 36 , 170 peopl have been kill across gaza sinc the start of the conflict , accord to the hama - run health ministri . mr hanegbi - seen as a close confid of isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu - told kan that he wa expect anoth seven month of conflict `` in order to fortifi our achiev and what we defin as the destruct of the government and militari capabl of hama and [ palestinian ] islam jihad `` . that suggest will worri mani in israel and outsid . there ha been grow intern pressur on isra leader to outlin a full strategi to end the fight and a convinc post - war vision for the palestinian territori . us secretari of state antoni blinken later said it wa imper that israel formul a post - war plan as soon as possibl if it want to ensur hama ' s last defeat . “ in the absenc of a plan for the day after , there won ' t be a day after , ” he told report on a visit to moldova . in hi interview , mr hanegbi also suggest that israel would soon take full control of the philadelphi corridor - a buffer zone , onli about 100m ( 330ft ) deep in part , which run along the gaza side of the 13km ( 8 - mile ) border with egypt . '' insid gaza , the idf is now in control of 75 % of the philadelphi corridor and i believ it will be in control of it all with time , ” he said . the plan , he ad , wa to work with the egyptian to “ ensur weapon smuggl is prevent ” . egypt ha deni weapon are still be smuggl under the border . but the idf said on tuesday that it wa demolish tunnel that led to the sinai peninsula . resid have said that troop have seiz about 9km of the philadelphi corridor , includ the rafah border cross , sinc the start of the ground oper in rafah on 6 may . the troop have also gradual push into built - up neighbourhood of rafah citi from the east and south , and reportedli reach the central al - awda roundabout on tuesday . on wednesday , resid told reuter news agenc that tank advanc into western tal al - sultan and central yibna and shaboura area befor pull back toward posit on the border . the idf also announc that three isra soldier were kill in combat in rafah on tuesday . sam rose of the un agenc for palestinian refuge ( unrwa ) , who is in western rafah , told the bbc that “ most peopl are now pack up and leav ” . “ i wa on the road thi morn and so were mani , mani other . it seem that even though the oper , the isra troop , haven ' t reach thi far west of rafah yet , peopl have taken the sign ... that it ' s time for them to leav , ” he said . “ a lot of anxieti , a lot of fear in the air . the rafah chapter of thi conflict , which we hope wouldn ' t be upon us , is now under way . '' meanwhil , gaza ’ s hama - run health ministri warn the isra bombard of rafah wa make it increasingli difficult for patient and health team to reach the emirati matern hospit in tal al - sultan . it came a day after the who said the hospit wa bare function and could no longer accept patient . “ if the incurs would continu , we would lose that last hospit in rafah , ” dr rik peeperkorn , the agenc ’ s repres for gaza and the occupi west bank , warn in an interview with reuter and afp news agenc in geneva . with the european gaza hospit in the citi of khan youni inaccess becaus of isra evacu order and fight on the ground , the estim 1 . 9 million peopl in southern gaza would be left “ depend on a string of field hospit along the coast ” , he said . dr peeperkorn said there wa a conting plan to refer patient to al - aqsa hospit in the central town of deir al - balah and to restor servic to two other hospit in khan youni which were raid by isra forc . but , he ad , if there wa a “ full incurs ” , the plan would “ not prevent what we expect [ to be ] substanti addit mortal and morbid ” . all the field hospit still function in the rafah area are overwhelm by casualti and undersuppli , accord to the who . the palestin red crescent societi ( prc ) said on wednesday that it had evacu the al - qud field hospit in al - mawasi , a coastal area just to the north - west of rafah . “ thi action wa taken due to the increas threat level from the isra occup , continu artilleri and air bombard in it vicin , and the complet evacu of resid from the surround area , ” a statement explain . on tuesday , gaza ’ s health ministri said six other medic facil in rafah - al - najjar hospit , the kuwaiti specialist hospit , the two rafah field hospit , the indonesian field hospit , and the abu al - walid central clinic - had been forc out of servic . al - najjar hospit , rafah ’ s largest , wa evacu at the start of the isra oper , while the medic aid for palestinian ( map ) said the smaller kuwaiti hospit close “ after an isra tank attack outsid the hospit kill two medic staff ” on monday . separ , who spokeswoman dr margaret harri said the casualti from an isra air strike and result fire at a camp for displac peopl in the tal al - sultan on sunday had “ absolut overwhelm ” field hospit in southern gaza . the health ministri said at least 45 peopl were kill in the incid . hundr more were treat for sever burn , fractur and shrapnel wound . idf spokesman rear adm hagari said on tuesday that aircraft had target two senior hama offici insid a structur that wa away from ani tent , use “ two munit with small warhead ” . “ our munit alon could not have ignit a fire of thi size , ” he said , ad that the militari wa look into the possibl that weapon store by hama nearbi could have caus a secondari explos . mr blinken said he wa unabl to verifi us media report that us - made gbu - 39 guid bomb were use in the strike , which he describ as `` horrif `` . on tuesday , palestinian accus israel of shell tent at al - mawasi , where it had advis civilian in rafah to go for safeti . but the idf said it “ did not strike in the humanitarian area in al - mawasi ” . a displac man from zeitoun in northern gaza , who ask not to be name , told bbc arab ’ s gaza today programm that 18 member of hi famili were among the 21 report kill . “ i wa in the compani of one of my rel , whom i left for a while and went to perform my prayer , ” he said while tri to identifi the bodi . “ when i return , i found that he wa martyr . ” “ i don ' t know whi all thi is happen to us ? we are human be of flesh and blood ... eighteen innoc peopl lost their live in second . ” last week , the intern court of justic ( icj ) order israel to “ immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part ” .