twelv malawian have been deport from israel after leav the farm where they were work , to get higher salari elsewher . the 12 malawian were among more than 40 foreign worker who were arrest while work at a bakeri in tel aviv last week . the worker , who were part of a labour agreement between israel and malawi , were unhappi with work condit in the agricultur sector and found work in a bakeri instead . israel ' s ambassador to malawi michael lotem told the bbc : `` anybodi who violat hi visa term will be deport – as easi as thi , as in ani countri . `` i hope it will be a sign for other that it is better to stick to the job . nobodi forc them to come , they came to do a job , they should do the job that is all . '' last week , benzani , a malawian work in israel , told the bbc that some of hi compatriot work on other farm were be paid less than the minimum wage in israel . '' the minimum wage in israel is 32 shekel ( $ 8 . 60 ; £ 6 . 85 ) an hour , but some of us are be paid 18 to 20 shekel an hour . '' benzani said mani of them had sign contract which said they would receiv $ 1 , 500 a month . benzani is not one of those who were deport . mr lotem said that rather than leav the farm and break the condit of their visa , they should have lodg a complaint . “ if someon think that he is not get what he deserv , there is a hotlin and a phone number they can call `` violat the law is not the answer . `` the isra polic show zero toler to illeg activ especi these day when we have so mani other troubl , ” mr lotem said . those deport were part of a labour drive by the isra govern last year to fill a shortag of agricultur worker follow octob ' s deadli attack on israel by hama . thi led israel to stop give permit to palestinian to work on it farm , while 10 , 000 migrant farm worker - mostli thai nation - left israel after war broke out . more than 200 malawian went to israel , while kenya agre to send 1 , 500 worker . the announc of the deal spark mix reaction in kenya , with some concern about their safeti . the two govern said it would help reduc unemploy in their countri . mr lotem also said that a new agreement had been sign for anoth 3 , 000 malawian to go and work in israel . classmat pay tribut to tanzanian kill in israeljoy and relief as 17 thai hostag return homeafrican brain drain : ' 90 % of my friend want to leav ' go to bbcafrica . com for more news from the african contin . follow us on twitter @ bbcafrica , on facebook at bbc africa or on instagram at bbcafrica