hama ha publish a video show the first proof of life of two more hostag be held in gaza . in undat footag film under duress , omri miran say he ha been held for 202 day and keith siegel mention thi week ' s passov holiday , indic the clip were film recent . both were captur when hama launch it deadli attack on 7 octob . respond to the video , their famili said they would keep fight for the men ' s return . they also urg the isra govern to secur a new hostag releas deal . the new video come as hama said it wa studi israel ' s latest propos for a truce . media report said mediat egypt had sent a deleg to israel to give fresh impetu to stall negoti . such a deal that includ an agreement to free the remain hostag could stop israel ' s plan ground assault in the southern citi of rafah , israel ' s foreign minist said on saturday . mr siegel , a us citizen , wa kidnap with hi wife aviva , though she wa freed in novemb dure a brief truce . in a video statement keith ' s wife aviva said : `` keith , i love you , we will fight until you return . '' earlier thi month , she told the bbc how the coupl had at one point been left in a tunnel by their captor as they were move from place to place . at the time of the interview , she said she did not know if keith wa still aliv . hi daughter ilan said : `` see my father today onli emphasis to all of us how much we must reach a deal as soon as possibl and bring everyon home . i demand that the leader of thi countri watch thi video and see their father cri out for help . '' hi other daughter shir said : `` if you watch the video , you saw that my father know we are all come to the ralli everi week and fight for him and all the captiv . '' speak at the weekli demonstr in tel aviv demand action to releas the hostag on saturday even , dani miran , omri miran ' s father , led chant by the crowd . he wa visibl emot as he deliv a power speech , describ hi excit see the video of hi son , know that `` he wa hope aliv `` . but hi speech also had a polit element . he talk directli to the govern and specif by name mention it far - right member - nation secur minist , itamar ben gvir and financ minist , bezalel smotrich , call on them to secur a hostag deal . he urg isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu to `` approv ani viabl deal `` . `` take one small and bloodless step for both peopl , '' he said , ad : `` all the peopl of israel and the nation of the world want to see an end to the bloodsh and especi an end to the suffer of your peopl . '' what wa also notabl wa that befor omri ' s father made hi speech , the hostag video wa shown in full on big screen around hostag squar . thi is highli unusu , as such video are not gener play on tv . the hostag famili forum headquart said the latest video wa `` the clearest evid that the isra govern must do everyth to approv a deal for the return of all the hostag `` . it follow anoth proof - of - life video the group releas earlier thi week , show isra - american hostag hersh goldberg - polin , 23 , who is shown without hi lower left arm in the short clip . it wa blown off dure hama ' s 7 octob attack on southern israel . in respons , hi mother and father also appeal for more to be done to secur a new hostag releas deal . the siegel were kidnap from kibbutz kfar aza on 7 octob when hama attack isra commun near gaza , while mr miran wa taken captiv from kibbutz nir oz . speak under duress in the video releas by the arm wing of hama , mr siegel , 64 , and mr miran , 46 , urg the isra govern to agre a deal with hama for a ceasefir and the releas of hostag . `` i have been here in hama captiv for 202 day . the situat here is unpleas , difficult and there are mani bomb , '' mr miran is heard say . indirect negoti between israel and hama to secur their releas - along with the other remain hostag - are continu , with week of talk fail to produc an agreement . hama reject a previou propos for a six - week ceasefir in exchang for the releas of 40 of the remain hostag . the group ha previous insist that ani deal should includ a perman end to the war , full isra militari withdraw from gaza and unrestrict return of displac peopl to their home . israel insist it must destroy hama in gaza and free the hostag . israel appear to be move ahead with plan for an offens in rafah , southern gaza , despit warn of the potenti catastroph humanitarian consequ for the 1 . 5 million displac palestinian shelter there . `` we are make all the prepar for the oper [ in rafah ] becaus that is what need to be done , '' isra foreign minist israel katz said on saturday . `` but i ' d hope that there will be a deal . '' the hama attack kill about 1 , 200 peopl and the group took some 250 hostag . israel ' s retaliatori campaign in gaza ha kill more than 34 , 000 palestinian , the hama - run health ministri there say . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 hostag - most of them women and children - in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . some 133 hostag are believ still to be in gaza of whom about 30 are thought to be dead .