israel ' s militari say it ha recov the bodi of a man taken hostag and held in gaza , in an overnight oper in khan youni . elad katzir wa taken from kibbutz nir oz dure the hama attack on southern israel on 7 octob . hi bodi ha been brought back to israel , the israel defens forc ( idf ) and isra secur agenc ( isa ) said . he wa identifi by medic offici , and hi famili ha been inform . the idf and isa said in a joint statement : `` the bodi of the abducte elad katzir , who accord to intellig wa murder in captiv by the islam jihad terrorist organis , wa rescu overnight from khan yuni and return to isra territori . '' they said hi remain were locat use `` precis `` intellig . he wa buri in the khan youni refuge camp , at a site use by `` terror oper `` , a time of israel report said . inform about the grave wa obtain about a week ago and confirm on friday even . hour later hi bodi wa exhum and return to israel , the report ad . mr katzir , 47 , wa abduct from nir oz with hi mother hanna , 77 . she wa releas along with 104 other hostag dure a six - day ceasefir at the end of novemb . hi father , avraham , wa murder in the kibbutz , the idf and isa said . mr katzir ' s sister , carmit palti katzir , blame isra author for her brother ' s death in a post on social media , say he would have return aliv had they agre a new truce deal . `` our leadership is cowardli and driven by polit consider , which is whi thi deal ha not happen yet , '' she wrote on facebook . `` prime minist , war cabinet , and coalit member : look at yourself in the mirror and say if your hand didn ' t spill blood . '' in januari , palestinian milit group islam jihad publish a video purport to show mr katzir speak from captiv in gaza . prison of war and hostag are protect under intern humanitarian law , and so the bbc doe not broadcast the full detail of materi which may have been film under duress . in the video , mr katzir said he had been close to die more than onc , and call on the isra govern to stop the war and bring him and other hostag home . he also repeatedli said he love and miss hi famili . isra media said that accord to idf estim mr katzir wa murder by hi captor in mid - januari , soon after the video wa publish . `` our mission is to locat and return the abducte home , '' the idf and isa said on saturday . they said they are `` work in full coordin with the relev nation and secur bodi and will continu until the task is complet `` . hama ha said it will send a deleg to egypt on sunday for a new round of ceasefir talk . israel said it wa undecid on whether to attend , ad that it would be `` more polit theatr than actual progress `` , reuter news agenc quot an isra offici as say . the 7 octob hama attack kill about 1 , 200 peopl , most of them civilian . some 33 , 137 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say - mani of them women and children . thi includ at least 46 death over the past 24 hour , a ministri statement said . accord to israel , 253 isra and foreign were taken dure the attack . about 129 hostag remain unaccount for after be kidnap - at least 34 of them are presum dead . israel give a slightli higher offici figur becaus it includ four peopl taken hostag in 2014 and 2015 . two of these are believ to have die .