fight and bombard continu on the outskirt of the southern gaza citi of rafah as israel said the key kerem shalom cross had reopen for aid . the isra militari said troop had kill hama fighter in eastern rafah as part of a `` precis `` counterterror oper . hama also report battl . earlier , the militari said lorri had reach kerem shalom , which wa close after a hama rocket attack on sunday . but the un say no suppli have pass through the cross yet . the us said that while the cross wa open again , aid could not get through `` becaus of logist and secur concern `` on the ground . the un had express alarm on tuesday over what it call israel ' s `` choke - off `` of gaza ' s two main aid arteri , after isra troop took full control of the palestinian side of the nearbi rafah cross with egypt . the close of the rafah cross is of particular concern becaus of the consequ for fuel deliveri - the un say all of it fuel enter there . `` without fuel , truck can not move critic humanitarian assist , water pump will stop function and the remain hospit will shut down , '' philipp lazzarini , the head of the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa , wrote on social media on wednesday . world health organ head tedro adhanom ghebreyesu warn that hospit in the south of gaza had onli three day of fuel left . plume of smoke from isra air strike were seen over rafah and heavi gunfir wa heard on wednesday , as the israel defens forc ( idf ) said troop were continu a limit offens in eastern area . resid of rafah report intens bombard overnight and video footag on wednesday morn show peopl search through the rubbl of a build destroy in one of the strike . `` we are in a safe area accord to the armi ' s map - an area without oper , '' neighbour reda al - najili told reuter news agenc . `` we were sit when suddenli the explos happen . our neighbour ' s hous wa gone , and our hous wa all damag intern . in the hous there are onli civilian . women die . those who were injur were all children . '' palestinian medic also said seven member of one famili , includ five children , were kill in an overnight strike on a home in the zeitoun neighbourhood of gaza citi , in the north of the territori . an idf statement issu on wednesday morn said they had `` elimin terrorist and uncov terrorist infrastructur , as well as underground shaft in sever locat `` dure sever encount over the previou day . they were also carri out raid on the gazan side of the rafah cross , it ad . the idf also said aircraft had struck more than 100 `` terror target `` throughout gaza over the same period . seven month into it war with hama in gaza , israel ha insist victori is imposs without take rafah . but with more than a million displac palestinian take refug there from the fight elsewher , the un and western power have warn that an all - out assault could have devast humanitarian consequ . negoti on a new ceasefir and hostag releas deal have resum in cairo , with the us say it believ a revis hama propos could lead to a breakthrough . the isra militari play down the signific of the us govern ' s decis to halt a shipment of power bomb over concern that israel wa about to launch a major offens on rafah citi . howev , us presid joe biden later warn that the us would stop suppli some weapon if israel launch a major ground oper in rafah . the isra militari ha order the evacu of an estim 100 , 000 resid and displac peopl in a number of eastern neighbourhood and told them they will find field hospit , tent and aid in an `` expand humanitarian area `` , which stretch north from al - mawasi to the citi of khan youni and central town of deir al - balah . meanwhil , the director gener of the world health organ said one of the three hospit in rafah , al - najjar , wa `` no longer function due to the ongo hostil in it vicin and the militari oper in rafah `` . dr tedro adhanom ghebreyesu also warn that the partial function kuwaiti and emirati hospit would soon run out of fuel unless the un receiv a deliveri . `` hospit in the south of gaza onli have three day of fuel left , which mean servic may soon come to a halt , '' he ad . the who ha also said the european gaza hospit in khan youni , where critic patient from rafah are refer , may also becom unreach . a displac man shelter at the hospit told bbc arab ' s gaza today programm that life wa veri difficult for him . `` i suffer from diabet , high blood pressur , and osteoarthr - a matter which mean the displac caus a great deal of suffer for me , '' he said . `` we hope to return to our land in gaza and that everyon will set up a tent in the place of hi home and settl back there . '' on wednesday morn , the idf announc the reopen of kerem shalom for humanitarian aid . `` truck from egypt carri humanitarian aid , includ food , water , shelter equip , medicin and medic equip donat by the intern commun are alreadi arriv at the cross , '' it said . `` after a thorough secur inspect by the secur personnel ... the equip will be transfer to the gazan side of the cross . '' the militari also said the recent reopen erez cross with northern gaza wa continu to oper . howev , the un aid agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa - which is the largest humanitarian organis in gaza - report that it had not receiv ani gaza aid via kerem shalom or rafah , which remain close . `` we ' re not receiv ani aid into the gaza strip , the rafah cross area ha ongo militari oper - there have been continu bombard in thi area throughout the day , '' said scott anderson , senior deputi director of unrwa affair in gaza . `` no fuel or aid ha enter into gaza strip and thi is disastr for the humanitarian respons . '' an isra govern spokesman disput unrwa ' s assert and insist aid wa go through kerem shalom . `` it is open and i would ask the un whi , day in and day out , there is so much surplu on the gaza side of kerem shalom that is not be distribut , '' avi hyman told a brief . kerem shalom is the key entri point for aid into gaza , but israel close it on sunday after four isra soldier were kill by rocket launch by hama from the area of the rafah cross , accord to the isra militari . anoth six projectil were fire at kerem shalom from the rafah area on tuesday , but no casualti were report . the second attack happen hour after isra tank roll into the palestinian side of the rafah cross . un secretari gener antónio guterr said he wa `` disturb and distress `` by the isra militari activ in rafah . he also warn that the closur of both rafah and kerem shalom cross wa `` especi damag to an alreadi dire humanitarian situat `` and demand that they be reopen immedi . mr guterr urg israel and hama to `` spare no effort `` to agre a ceasefir , warn that the fate of the entir region wa face a `` decis moment `` . on monday , israel declar that a three - phase propos for a ceasefir and the releas of hostag approv by hama wa unaccept . the white hous spokesman , john kirbi , said a revis text hama had sinc put forward suggest remain gap could `` absolut be close `` . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 34 , 840 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 hostag in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . israel say 128 hostag are unaccount for , 36 of whom are presum dead .