israel ' s high court ha issu an order in the long - run disput over ultra - orthodox militari exempt , deepen a crisi in the govern . it instruct a fund freez for ultra - orthodox , or haredi , educ institut whose student are elig for conscript . haredi parti in the govern have react angrili , while a secular parti ha threaten to quit over the issu . ultra - orthodox exempt are oppos by a major of isra . the haredi commun compris about 12 % of the popul but those in full - time torah studi are exempt from mandatori militari servic . conscript appli to almost all other isra , apart from isra arab , from the age of 18 for both men and women . the govern is debat a bill which reportedli seek to strike a compromis by allow exempt with limit . but the draft plan is fierc oppos by haredi parti . two of those parti - sha and unit torah judaism ( utj ) - hold 18 seat in the 72 - seat emerg govern . on the other hand , the secular , centrist nation union parti , which hold eight seat , is insist exempt are scrap altogeth . the parti ' s leader , benni gantz , a former armi chief of staff , ha threaten to pull out of the govern over the current plan . `` the peopl will not toler it , the knesset will not be abl to vote in favour of it , and my associ and i can not be part of thi emerg govern if thi law pass , '' he said on monday . while some ultra - orthodox jew of armi servic age serv in the israel defens forc ( idf ) , the vast major do not , devot their live to torah studi in the religi institut , or yeshivot . the high court rule that fund to yeshivot whose student qualifi for conscript sinc 1 juli 2023 when a previou law on deferr expir but who have not yet enlist , will be frozen . it is report to affect about 50 , 000 yeshiva student . the rule is due to come into effect on 1 april , a day after a deadlin for the govern to draft a new law expir . the head of utj , yitzhak goldknopf , call the rule `` a stain and a disgrac `` . critic object to the exempt , argu that all jewish isra should serv without except . the issu ha intensifi sinc the start of the war in gaza on 7 octob , in which 254 soldier have been kill . a former advis to sha leader ariyeh deri , barak seri , told israel public radio that `` from the moment that the court rule , the haredi parti have been in utter shock `` . `` they were stun by the rule that fund will stop thi monday . the accus are fli in all direct , at the likud [ parti which lead the govern ] , at [ prime minist benjamin ] netanyahu , at the fulli right - wing govern , at their repres ... thi is the worst situat the haredim have ever been in . ''