a temporari float pier design to increas the amount of aid get into gaza ha been anchor to a beach there , the us militari ha said . lorri carri humanitarian assist are expect to begin move ashor `` in the come day `` . at a brief for report on wednesday , usaid respons director dan dieckhau said construct of the pier - known as a joint logist over - the - shore ( jlot ) system - is complet . hundr of tonn of aid ha arriv in cypru , where screen take place befor be load on to ship for deliveri to the pier . vice adm brad cooper , deputi command of us central command , said commerci ship would collect pallet from cypru and deliv them to a float platform anchor sever kilometr off the coast of gaza . smaller us militari vessel , capabl of carri between five and 15 lorri of aid , will then transport it to a float causeway , sever hundr metr long , fix to the beach in gaza . lorri will travel along the causeway befor drop off the aid at a marshal yard on the beach . vice adm cooper said the un , primarili the world food programm , will be respons for the onward distribut of aid . us central command stress that “ no us troop enter gaza ” in a brief statement announc that the pier had been anchor to a beach on thursday morn . it wa reportedli tow from the isra port of ashdod on wednesday . the uk foreign offic said on wednesday that nearli 100 tonn of uk aid , consist of 8 , 400 “ shelter coverag kit ” ( temporari shelter make up of plastic sheet ) left cypru on wednesday , bound for the temporari pier . “ we are lead intern effort with the us and cypru to establish a maritim aid corridor . today ' s first shipment of british aid from cypru to the temporari pier off gaza is an import moment in increas thi flow , ” prime minist rishi sunak said . un offici say there ha been substanti co - ordin with the us over the oper of the jlot , but that they have linger concern about how it will work , whether it will bring what is need to gaza , and whether it will prove safe for aid worker and gazan alik . privat , some describ it as a high tech distract from what is realli need - properli function aid cross and a safe distribut system throughout the gaza strip . the us offici brief report emphasis that the jlot wa design to augment exist effort to bring aid into gaza , not replac them .