the us secretari of state hope hama will accept what he ha call israel ' s `` extraordinarili gener `` offer for a gaza truce and hostag releas deal . antoni blinken wa speak as a hama deleg discuss the new propos with mediat from egypt and qatar . a sourc close to the talk told the bbc they were cautious optimist . the propos includ a 40 - day truce in return for the releas of hostag and the prospect of displac famili be allow back to northern gaza . it reportedli also involv new word on restor calm meant to satisfi hama ' s demand for a perman ceasefir . the hama deleg ha now left cairo and will return with a written respons to the propos , egypt ' s state - affili al qahera tv said . the isra govern is come under grow pressur from it global alli and the famili of the hostag to agre a deal . israel launch a militari campaign to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 34 , 480 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 of the hostag in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . mediat from egypt , qatar and the us have been attempt for week to broker a new agreement that would secur anoth paus in the fight and the releas of the 133 hostag who israel say are still be held , at least 30 of whom are presum dead . earlier thi month , hama reject an isra propos for a six - week truce and the releas of 40 women , children and elderli or sick hostag in exchang for hundr of palestinian prison . hama said it wa stick to it demand for a perman ceasefir that would lead to a full withdraw of isra troop from gaza and the return of displac palestinian to their home . the sourc close to the talk in cairo told the bbc that the new propos from israel wa significantli differ from previou offer . on saturday , the axio news websit cite isra offici as say the propos includ a willing for the return of peopl to northern gaza and the withdraw of isra troop from the east - west corridor that divid the territori and prevent freedom of movement . it also includ a willing to `` discuss the establish of a sustain ceasefir as part of the implement of the second phase of the deal `` , the offici said . isra offici and a diplomat meanwhil told the new york time and financi time on monday that israel wa also prepar to reduc the number of hostag releas dure the first phase to 33 , down from 40 . hama ha onli said publicli that it is studi the new isra propos , but an unnam senior offici told afp news agenc on sunday that `` the atmospher is posit unless there are new isra obstacl `` . `` there are no major issu in the observ and inquiri submit by hama regard the content [ of the propos ] , '' they ad . mr blinken also express optim at a meet of the world econom forum ( wef ) in riyadh , which wa attend by sever of hi european and arab counterpart . `` hama ha befor it a propos that is extraordinarili , extraordinarili gener , on the part of israel . and in thi moment , the onli thing stand between the peopl of gaza and a ceasefir is hama , '' he said . `` they have to decid , and they have to decid quickli ... and i ' m hope that they will make the right decis . '' egyptian foreign minist sameh shoukri , whose countri is a mediat in the israel - hama negoti along with qatar , also said he wa `` hope `` . `` the propos ha taken into account the posit of both side and ha tri to extract moder , '' he said . `` there are factor that will have an impact on both side ' decis , but i hope that all will rise to the occas . '' sunday ' s phone call between us presid joe biden and isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu is said to have focus on the negoti . they also discuss the need to sustain a recent increas in aid reach gaza and continu us opposit to a full - scale offens on the southern citi of rafah , where more than a million displac peopl are shelter . local medic and rescuer said at least 22 palestinian were kill in isra air strike on three home in rafah overnight . `` we demand the entir world call for a last truce . thi is enough , '' a man call abu taha told afp at al - najjar hospit , as a crowd of rel mourn over the shroud bodi . there wa no immedi comment on the report from the isra militari . meanwhil , children in rafah told bbc arab ' s gaza today radio programm that rise temperatur were make life unbear in the thousand of tent and makeshift shelter erect there . `` be insid the tent doe not protect me from the intens heat ; it is as if i am stand directli under sun ' s ray , '' said sarah abu amr , 11 . `` there is no electr to power fan or get cold water to eas the terribl effect of the heat , and there is no food , water , or anyth at all to keep us hydrat . '' last week , when temperatur reach 40c ( 104f ) , a five - month - old girl reportedli die in a tent due to the extrem heat , accord to the un . over the weekend , there were further indic from senior isra gener that plan were be finalis for a major oper in rafah , where the militari say hama ' s remain battalion and leader are base . but mr blinken - who is due to fli from saudi arabia to jordan and israel - note that the us had `` not yet seen a plan that give us confid that civilian can be effect protect `` . palestinian author presid mahmoud abba - a rival of hama who is base in the occupi west bank - said on sunday that the us wa the onli countri capabl of prevent an assault on rafah , which he warn would caus `` the biggest disast in the histori of the palestinian peopl `` . isra foreign minist , israel katz , said on sunday that israel ' s militari would `` suspend the oper `` in rafah if a hostag releas deal wa agre . but far - right financ minist bezalel smotrich warn mr netanyahu not to cancel the rafah assault , say that if he fail to destroy hama `` the govern head by you will have no right to exist `` .