israel will be allow to compet at the eurovis song contest 2024 after chang the lyric to it song , organis have confirm . eden golan will repres the countri at the contest in sweden thi may . her origin song , octob rain , wa thought to refer the hama attack of 7 octob and had been bar for break rule on polit neutral . israel ' s public broadcast agre to amend the song , now titl hurrican , and will unveil it thi weekend . in a statement , the european broadcast union ( ebu ) - which organis the contest - said earlier : `` the ebu can confirm that the offici submiss from it isra member kan ha been deem elig to compet in the eurovis song contest in may . `` the contest ' s refer group , it govern board , made the decis to accept the song ' hurrican ' for the upcom competit after care scrutini of the lyric . `` it wa agre that ' hurrican ' met the necessari criteria for particip in accord with the rule of the competit . '' isra broadcast kan had previous pledg not to alter the lyric , but the countri ' s presid isaac herzog later call for `` necessari adjust `` to ensur israel can take part in the contest . the origin lyric of octob rain - written in english - were publish on kan ' s websit last month . they includ the line `` they were all good children , everi one of them `` and `` who told you boy don ' t cri / hour and hour / and flower / life is not a game for the coward . '' on wednesday , belgium ' s french - speak cultur minist benedict linard call for israel to be ban from eurovis as long as the war in gaza continu . `` just like russia ha been exclud from competit and eurovis follow it invas of ukrain , israel should be exclud until it put an end to it flagrant violat of intern law , which are caus thousand of victim , especi children , '' she wrote on x . israel insist that it ground offens against hama in gaza is be carri out in line with intern law . it militari ha repeatedli said that it goe out of it way to tri to avoid harm civilian . ms linard also told parliament on wednesday that she would ask public broadcast rtbf , which is organis belgium ' s entri to eurovis , to voic the concern to the ebu . her flemish counterpart , benjamin dall , said an isra suspens would be appropri while so mani palestinian civilian were suffer , accord to a report by flemish broadcast vrt . musician in sever countri have call for israel to be suspend from the contest . in decemb , iceland ' s associ of compos and lyricist publish a statement say israel ' s militari action in gaza made it particip incompat with an event `` characteris by joy and optim `` . in finland , a petit sign by more than 1 , 400 music industri profession accus their nation broadcast yle of doubl standard , say it wa among the first to demand the ban on russia after it invas of ukrain in 2022 . the ebu soon after ban russia from particip . befor he wa select to repres the uk , olli alexand also endors a statement accus israel of genocid . an isra offici later told the uk ' s daili telegraph newspap the argument were `` absurd `` and accus alexand and hi fellow signatori of `` anti - israel bia `` . israel ha won the eurovis song contest four time befor . it militari launch an air and ground campaign in gaza after hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob , in which around 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 30 , 800 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say .