south africa is ask the un ' s top court to order israel to stop it militari offens in rafah in southern gaza . it is present it case at a two - day hear at the intern court of justic ( icj ) in the hagu . israel is to deliv it respons at the court on friday . south africa is also seek to forc israel to allow `` unimped access `` to gaza for aid worker , journalist and investig . the court is alreadi consid a case brought by south africa in januari accus israel of commit genocid against the palestinian in gaza . israel reject the claim as fals and `` grossli distort `` . israel began it attack on hama in rafah 10 day ago , amid warn from the un and other of a grave risk to civilian . more than a million displac peopl had been take refug in rafah and nearli 600 , 000 have fled from there sinc the start of the oper . south africa ' s applic to the court accus israel of carri out `` genocid `` oper in rafah and elsewher in gaza , and say that it `` must be order to stop `` . address the court at the start of the hear , south african barrist vaughan low kc said that `` evid of appal crime and atroc is liter be destroy and bulldoz , in effect wipe the slate clean for those who ' ve commit these crime and make a mockeri of justic `` . israel say it offens in rafah is necessari in order to destroy the last remain hama battalion which are base there and to rescu some 130 remain isra hostag which it believ are be held there . in januari , in a highli charg case which wa close watch around the world , the icj order israel to take measur to prevent potenti genocid act in gaza . it also order israel to do more to enabl the provis of aid to the peopl there . the then presid of the court , joan donoghu , told the bbc last month that the icj did not decid that there wa a plausibl case for genocid , but rather that the palestinian had a right to be protect from genocid , as claim by south africa . the icj is not expect to deliv a rule on the genocid case for sever year . it rule are legal bind , but in practic unenforc by the court . the latest applic is the fourth which south africa , whose govern parti ha a long histori of solidar with the palestinian caus , ha file with the icj against israel ' s action in gaza . israel began it offens in gaza after gunmen from the rule palestinian group hama launch an unpreced attack on israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other hostag . more than 35 , 270 peopl have been kill by israel in the war in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri .