us secretari of state antoni blinken ha told israel and hama that `` the time is now `` for a deal to bring about a ceasefir in gaza and free the remain hostag held there . mr blinken said a deal wa on the tabl and hama should agre to it . mediat are await a respons from hama to the latest propos . it reportedli involv a 40 - day ceasefir and the releas of more than 30 isra hostag in exchang for mani more palestinian prison . `` we are determin to get a ceasefir that bring the hostag home and to get it now , and the onli reason that that wouldn ' t be achiev is becaus of hama , '' mr blinken said as he met isra presid isaac herzog in tel aviv . `` there is a propos on the tabl , and as we ' ve said , no delay , no excus . the time is now . '' a senior hama offici ha deni the group is to blame for delay on reach a new deal . famili of the hostag were demonstr outsid and mr blinken greet them , say set their love one free wa `` at the heart of everyth we ' re tri to do `` . about 130 hostag from among 253 kidnap by hama dure it unpreced attack on israel on 7 octob remain unaccount for . at least 34 of them are presum dead . the rest have been releas or rescu . the top us diplomat later visit the isra port of ashdod , about 30km ( 20 mile ) north of gaza , where he insist that israel had made meaning concess to reach a hostag and ceasefir deal . mr blinken said israel had made progress on get more aid into gaza but thi need to be acceler given the immens scale of need . ashdod wa recent open to aid shipment destin for gaza , where the un ha warn of sever food shortag and loom famin . on wednesday the israel defens forc ( idf ) said 30 truck of humanitarian suppli from jordan had for the first time enter northern gaza via the erez cross . mr blinken also repeat the us posit that israel should not launch a militari incurs into the overcrowd southern citi of rafah without a clear plan to protect more than a million palestinian who have been shelter from the war there in dire humanitarian condit . `` on rafah itself - our posit is clear , it ha not chang , it won ' t chang . we can not , will not support a major militari oper in rafah absent an effect plan make sure that civilian are not harm . we have not seen such a plan , '' he said . rafah is the onli major citi in gaza that idf ground forc have not taken control of dure half a year of war . howev the citi ha been repeatedli hit by deadli isra air strike . on tuesday isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu - who also met mr blinken on wednesday - said israel would launch an invas of rafah regardless of truce talk with hama . `` we will enter rafah and we will elimin the hama battalion there with or without a deal , in order to achiev the total victori , '' he said . member of mr netanyahu ' s govern coalit are divid on the issu . foreign minist israel katz told isra tv a rafah oper would be suspend if there wa a deal . but far - right minist have said if that happen they will bring down the govern . the un , western alli of israel and humanitarian agenc have all warn that an assault on rafah risk a humanitarian disast . west bank - base palestinian presid mahmoud abba said it would be the `` biggest catastroph in the palestinian peopl ' s histori `` becaus , he said , it would trigger larg - scale displac of palestinian out of gaza entir . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 34 , 500 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri .