the un humanitarian aid chief ha defend the organis ' s use of casualti figur in the gaza war in respons to sharp critic by israel . martin griffith told the bbc the un wa `` veri cautiou `` in it approach . israel earlier said a recent reduct in un estim of kill palestinian women and children suggest it had reli on fals data from hama . on 6 may , the un said 69 % of report fatal were women and children . on 8 may , it said thi figur wa 52 % . the un ' s offic for the coordin of humanitarian affair ( ocha ) say incomplet inform ha led to the revis . the un also say it is now reli on figur from the hama - run health ministri in gaza , rather than from the hama - run govern media offic ( gmo ) . speak to the bbc ' s today programm , mr griffith said : `` gaza is a war zone and the collect of data and statist , while admir and necessari , is first of all secondari to actual deliv some aid and , secondli , veri difficult in case of insecur and violenc . `` so ... be realist , pleas , about what ' s possibl in the middl of what we ' re see in gaza . i think we are veri cautiou about these figur and i think it ' s not right to blame the messeng who is tri to get truth out of what is a veri , veri complic situat . '' at the start of the war last octob , the hama - run health ministri onli report death for which detail had been regist in hospit , wherea from novemb , the gmo includ an addit categori of death record in `` reliabl media report `` . on 6 may , ocha report 34 , 735 death - of which there were more than 9 , 500 women and more than 14 , 500 children , cite the gmo as it sourc . then two day later , the un releas a further report , switch it sourc to the health ministri . the result of thi wa that although the overal record death toll wa almost unchang ( 34 , 844 ) , the number of regist death of women ( 4 . 959 ) and children ( 7 , 797 ) as of 30 april had both fallen significantli . thi differ wa becaus those individu with incomplet inform were not includ in the demograph breakdown . react to the chang in the offici un estim , isra foreign minist israel katz call on the un secretari gener antonio guterr to step down . `` the miracul resurrect of the dead in gaza . the un had reduc it estim of women and children kill in gaza by 50 % and claim that it reli on data from the hama ministri of health , '' mr katz wrote in a post on x on monday . `` anyon who reli on fake data from a terrorist organis in order to promot blood libel against israel is antisemit and support terror . @ antonioguterr , resign ! '' israel began it militari campaign in the gaza strip in the wake of hama ' s attack on 7 octob , in which 1 , 200 peopl - mostli civilian - were kill , and 252 other were taken hostag .