an ai - gener imag depict tent camp for displac palestinian and a slogan that read all eye on rafah is sweep social media . the post ha been share more than 47 million time by instagram user includ celebr like dua lipa , lewi hamilton and gigi and bella hadid . the imag and the slogan went viral after an isra air strike and result fire at a camp for displac palestinian in the southern gaza citi of rafah earlier thi week . the hama - run health ministri said at least 45 peopl were kill and hundr more wound in the incid . israel said it had target two hama command , and that the deadli fire wa possibl caus by a secondari explos . there ha been widespread intern condemn of the isra strike , which isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu call a “ tragic mishap ” . follow the incid , the imag went viral after a young man in malaysia post it on hi social media account , bbc arab discov . so how did thi imag come about ? the deadli incid earlier thi week in rafah led to peopl post clip of richard peeperkorn , a repres of the world health organ in the occupi palestinian territori , speak in februari . he told journalist at the time that “ all eye are on rafah `` , warn against isra forc attack the citi . speak via an onlin call to journalist at the un ' s headquart in geneva , mr peeperkorn said he fear `` unimagin disast `` if the isra armi made a larg - scale incurs into the citi , which it wa threaten to invad . offici and activist have been repeat mr peeperkorn ' s phrase sinc then to express their concern and opposit to israel ' s militari oper in rafah , which began three week ago . in the month that follow the first use of the phrase , all eye on rafah slogan appear at ralli around the world and on social media . but in the last two day , the ai - gener imag featur the slogan ha prolifer on social media site , with more than 47 million share accord to an instagram count on thursday afternoon . other celebr who have share the imag and the slogan includ american actor mark ruffalo , indian actress priyanka chopra and syrian actress kinda alloush . expert who spoke to the bbc say there are a number of factor that explain whi the all eye on rafah messag ha gone viral in such a short amount of time . among them are the ai - gener natur of the imag , the simplic of the slogan , the eas at which instagram user can share the post in just a coupl of click , and it uptak by celebr . but accord to anastasia kavada , who run an ma cours on media , campaign and social chang at the univers of westminst , the most import factor is the time and polit context of the post . she explain that it ha gone viral at a time when mani feel `` outrag `` at the news of the strike on the camp in rafah . thi view is echo by maher nammari , an e - market and artifici intellig consult , who emphasis the import of the natur of the incid itself and the onlin interact that follow . '' sunday ' s attack in rafah ha caus widespread sad `` , he told bbc arab . what make it more shareabl still , howev , is the ai - gener imag in the post itself , expert say . the imag - depict a vast desert and a tent camp with the text all eye on rafah on it - doe not show a real place or the citi of rafah . notabl absent are pictur of dead bodi , blood , shot of real peopl , name or distress scene . thi ha led to critic from some quarter . dr paul reilli , a senior lectur in commun , media and democraci at the univers of glasgow , say that some activist will feel concern that the imag doe not show the true extent of what ' s realli happen on the ground , point to materi post on social media by journalist in gaza which ha not gain such viral promin . react to the critic , the malaysian artist who creat the imag - known by hi usernam shahv4012 - wrote in an instagram stori quot by time magazin : “ there are peopl who are not satisfi with the pictur and templat , i apolog if i have made a mistak on all of you . '' but he ad : “ whatev [ you do ] , don ’ t look down on the rafah issu now , spread it so that they are shaken and afraid of the spread of all of us . ” but while the imag depict a somewhat `` sanitis `` version of what is go on in rafah , dr reilli say that could be an advantag from a digit activist ' s perspect in term of it share - abil . he explain that thi is becaus the imag doe not contain graphic content that could lead to it remov from instagram for infring it term of use guidelin , while also increas awar of the issu that activist seek to bring attent to . tool develop by instagram have also contribut to take the post viral . when `` shahv4012 `` publish the pictur , he use the “ add your ” featur , launch by instagram in 2021 , which allow other user to re - share the photo with just a coupl of click . peopl can also add their own caption and tag to the post , make them easi to customis and share . mr nammari say that the use of such a featur in polit or social campaign is a recent develop . “ in most case , anyon who start use thi featur for polit reason aim to contribut to launch larg - scale campaign , becaus the [ post ] snowbal [ in popular ] , '' he say . a smaller counter - campaign ha been launch on social media in respons to the all eye on rafah messag . an imag , also creat use ai , featur the word : `` where were your eye on octob 7 ? '' refer to the hama attack on southern israel in which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other taken hostag . the imag , reportedli design by isra instagram user benjamin jamon , featur a gunman stand in front of a babi taken captiv in gaza . the imag wa share about half a million time befor the imag wa remov from some account and mr jamon ' s instagram account wa ban , accord to isra media . the imag later reappear , with instagram ' s parent compani meta say : `` thi imag doe not violat our polici `` and that it wa `` work to understand a technic issu that led to some instanc `` of it be `` mistakenli remov . '' at least 36 , 170 peopl have been kill across gaza sinc the start of the conflict , accord to the hama - run health ministri .