us presid joe biden say he expect iran to attack israel `` sooner than later `` , as fear grow of iranian retali over an air strike that kill top command earli thi month . israel ha not admit attack an iranian consul in syria but is wide believ to have been behind it . us offici have told cb news , the bbc ' s us partner , that a major attack on israel could happen immin . israel say it is readi to defend itself . mr biden told iran : `` don ' t . '' `` we are devot to the defenc of israel . we will support israel , '' mr biden said . `` we will help defend israel and iran will not succeed . '' iran back hama , the palestinian group fight israel in gaza , as well as variou proxi group throughout the region , includ some - such as hezbollah in lebanon - that frequent carri out strike against the isra . on friday , hezbollah said it had launch `` dozen `` of rocket from lebanon toward israel . an israel defens forc ( idf ) spokesman said around 40 missil and two explos drone had been launch . no casualti were report and there were no indic of involv from other actor . a us offici told cb the barrag wa separ from ani expect iranian attack on israel . bbc secur correspond frank gardner say iran is deliber keep the middl east and washington guess . ever sinc the lethal 1 april strike on the consul build in damascu , from which israel believ iran wa direct it covert arm suppli to iranian proxi in lebanon and syria , iran ' s secur establish ha been debat it respons . thi is all about calibr . hit too hard and israel will respond with devast forc . go too lightli and iran will risk be seen as weak and ineffect . from a tactic perspect , it make no sens for iran to respond right now , when the region is on full alert and when the us ha been tell the world what to expect . pragmatist in tehran and qom will be urg restraint , while hawk , includ the age suprem leader , ayatollah khamenei , will be demand a firm respons . but iran doe not want a full - scale war , nor do it neighbour on the arab side of the gulf . govern there have alreadi ask iran for restraint . the question now , our correspond say , is whether it is the hawk or the dove who prevail . the mount tension have led countri includ the us , uk , india and australia to warn against travel to israel . germani call on it citizen to leav iran . the us state depart also bar diplomat staff and their famili in israel from travel outsid the citi of tel aviv , jerusalem and beersheba . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha met member of hi war cabinet amid the warn . some isra said they were not worri about a potenti iranian attack . `` we know that we are surround by enemi , in the south , in the north , the east and the west , '' daniel kosman told afp news agenc at a market in jerusalem . `` we are not afraid , i can promis you . look around : peopl are go out . '' the isra govern ha not issu ani new advic to it peopl on top of exist guidanc to stock up on water , food for three day and essenti medicin . isra radio , howev , report local author had been told to prepar for the possibl of an attack , includ by assess the readi of public shelter . last week , the isra militari cancel home leav for combat troop , bolster air defenc and call up reservist . thirteen peopl were kill in the 1 april missil strike on the iranian consul in damascu . they includ senior iranian militari leader , among them brig gen mohammad reza zahedi , a senior command of iran ' s elit qud forc in syria and lebanon . israel ha not comment but is wide consid to have carri out the attack . offici in sever countri have been tri to dissuad iran from launch an attack , fear it could spark a wider region war . us secretari of state antoni blinken ha spoken to the foreign minist of china , saudi arabia and turkey in an attempt to convinc them to use their influenc with iran . after meet the command of us central command on friday , isra defenc minist yoav gallant said the bond between the two countri had been strengthen by the threat , ad `` we will know how to respond `` . the war in gaza wa spark when hama attack isra commun near the gaza strip , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , most of them civilian , and take more than 250 hostag . israel say that of 130 hostag still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 600 gazan , the major of them civilian , have been kill dure israel ' s campaign in gaza , the hama - run health ministri say . the conflict ha also seen israel trade almost daili fire across it northern border with hezbollah , while iran - back group in iraq and yemen have attempt to hit isra territori as well as us base in iraq and syria . yemen ' s houthi movement ha also attack ship in the red sea , sink at least one ship and prompt the us and uk to conduct air strike on houthi target in yemen .