the eu ha agre to expand sanction on iranian produc of drone and missil follow tehran ' s unpreced attack on israel . `` it ' s veri import to do everyth to isol iran , '' european council presid charl michel said . the bloc alreadi ha multipl sanction in place against iran , includ for sell drone to russia for use in it war against ukrain . the us ha hint it will impos it own new penalti in the come day . the eu ' s new sanction were agre dure a summit in brussel which mark the first meet between the bloc ' s 27 leader sinc iran ' s direct assault on israel on saturday , involv more than 300 missil and drone fire from iran , iraq , syria and yemen which were mostli down by israel and it alli . tehran ha maintain it wa retali for a presum isra air strike on it consul in syria on 1 april , in which 13 peopl were kill . israel - which appear to have onli counter with a diplomat offens so far - ha not rule out a respons . but world leader have continu to urg restraint , in a bid to prevent a wider conflict in the middl east . `` for us , it is import that thi moment is now also use for further de - escal and that israel also use thi success to strengthen it posit in the whole region and not respond with a massiv attack of it own , '' german chancellor olaf scholz said after wednesday ' s meet . israel ha call on it alli to sanction tehran ' s missil programm and for the islam revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) - a major militari and polit forc in iran - to be design a terrorist organis , someth the us ha done but the eu and uk have not . the eu alreadi ha a wide rang of measur in place which target iran over it human right abus , nuclear prolifer activ and militari support for russia . speak about the possibl of further sanction on tuesday , us treasuri secretari janet yellen said that `` all option to disrupt terrorist financ of iran continu to be on the tabl `` . she also signal that iran ' s oil export could be `` a possibl area `` washington target . `` clearli , iran is continu to export some oil . there may be more that we could do . '' in a later statement , us nation secur advisor jake sullivan said that iran ' s missil and drone programm as well as the irgc and the iranian defenc ministri would also be cover .