at least 42 peopl have been kill in air strike in north - west syria , report say . syria ' s defenc ministri said isra plane target sever site in the aleppo countrysid at 01 : 45 on friday ( 22 : 45 gmt thursday ) . a uk - base monitor group said hezbollah milit and syrian soldier die as a hezbollah arm store wa hit . hour later , israel ' s militari said it had kill a senior hezbollah figur in an air strike in lebanon . ali abe akhsan naim wa a deputi command of the group ' s missil and rocket unit , the israel defens forc said , and wa respons for conduct and plan attack on isra civilian . video releas onlin by israel show a move vehicl , which he wa said to be travel in , explod after be struck by a missil . the strike wa in the bazuriyeh area , east of the port of tyre , the idf ad . hezbollah ha not yet comment on the report . the syrian observatori for human right ( sohr ) - which monitor event in syria from the uk - said the aleppo attack had led to the highest number of dead ( 36 ) among syrian forc in a singl such `` isra attack `` . it also said six hezbollah fighter were kill . cite two secur sourc , reuter news agenc said five hezbollah fighter were among the dead , put the death toll at 38 . syria ' s defenc ministri said civilian and syrian militari personnel had been kill . it said the air strike were carri out `` in conjunct with `` drone attack by `` terrorist organis `` against aleppo citi and the surround area , though it did not give ani further inform . israel ' s militari told the bbc it would not comment on foreign media report . the sohr , which use an extens network of contact in syria , said the alleg isra strike also caus multipl injuri , some seriou . it said that the strike hit the weapon warehous in jabrin area , near aleppo intern airport , and target syrian air defenc forc facil in al - saferah , about 20km ( 12 . 5 mile ) , south - east of aleppo citi . it also said explos were heard in the kafr joum area of western aleppo . in recent year , israel ha launch hundr of strike on syria against hezbollah or iranian asset there . it ha vow to prevent iran - hezbollah ' s most import backer - from transfer advanc weaponri to the lebanes group or from build up it own militari presenc in syria . both iran and hezbollah - syrian alli - oppos israel ' s exist . alleg isra strike on syria have increas sinc hama , which is also support by iran and hezbollah , carri out the 7 octob attack on israel , which trigger the war in gaza . cross - border attack between hezbollah in lebanon and israel have also escal . on wednesday , isra air strike on southern lebanon kill 16 peopl , includ hezbollah fighter and other milit , mark the deadliest attack of their kind sinc hezbollah began launch rocket at israel in support of hama on 8 octob . hour after the first isra strike , a hezbollah rocket barrag kill a 25 - year - old man in northern israel . addit report by christi cooney and robert greenal