the dramat rescu of four isra hostag in gaza amid effort to tri to get israel and hama to agre to a ceasefir ha rais question over the impact it could have on reach a deal , as mediat talk show no sign of a breakthrough . as imag of the freed and smile three men and one woman domin tv bulletin and news websit , ten of thousand of peopl join protest across israel on saturday , urg the govern to strike an agreement with hama for the releas of those who are still be held . “ all of them , now ! ” the crowd chant in tel aviv . hama meanwhil ha call the oper , which it health ministri said kill more than 270 palestinian , a “ massacr ” . be discuss is a three - stage plan announc by us presid joe biden earlier thi month , which he describ as an isra propos . it would secur the releas of the hostag and , crucial , pave the way for a perman ceasefir in gaza . notabl , the isra prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , ha not openli endors the plan . it is not surpris , as he is face pressur from multipl front and seem to be caught between two option : ceasefir or coalit . the famili of the hostag , whose ordeal ha grip the nation , and israel ’ s intern alli are call for a deal . from the peopl captur in octob , 116 remain in captiv ; more than a third of them have alreadi been offici declar dead , a number that is probabl higher . among those against the propos , full detail of which have not been made public , are two of mr netanyahu ’ s far - right minist , itamar ben - gvir and bezalel smotrich . they have threaten to quit the govern if the deal goe ahead , which could lead to the collaps of the netanyahu coalit . “ temporarili in israel there will be more pressur from certain quarter on netanyahu to not do ani deal , that we should continu to do rescu oper , ” gershon baskin , who help negoti a deal with hama for the releas of captur isra soldier gilad shalit in 2011 , said . “ anyon who think logic and ration know that the onli way to get [ the ] hostag home is through a negoti deal . ” the resign of benni gantz from the emerg govern on sunday is like to result in more power to both mr ben - gvir and mr smotrich – and , possibl , in more pressur from them on mr netanyahu . describ as a moder , mr gantz is consid a possibl candid to be the next prime minist . in israel , much of the disput over the current propos is around the commit to a perman cessat of hostil – in other word , the end of the war . mr netanyahu ha insist israel will not accept ani plan befor the destruct of hama ’ s militari and govern capabl , a choic of word that is vagu enough to leav hi option open . “ i believ that netanyahu prefer hi coalit over bring our boy and girl home , ” said michael hauser tov , chief polit correspond at the haaretz newspap , which is critic of the prime minist . thi is a common suspicion in israel and elsewher : that mr netanyahu is interest in prolong the war for hi own polit surviv . “ i think netanyahu will tri to continu with the negoti onli for hi intern need and the relationship with presid biden . and , on the other hand , he ’ ll tri to sabotag the negoti becaus he want to keep hi coalit stabl . ” hama ha not yet given a formal respons to the plan outlin by presid biden . one of it key demand is a guarante that the isra militari will not resum it offens against the group onc the hostag are releas . “ hama , from my experi with them , put up a posit and they stay firm to it . how long can they last ? i don ’ t know , ” mr baskin said . “ my percept is that the longer israel continu thi war , the easier for [ hama ] to recruit new recruit from bereav famili and peopl who ’ ve lost their home , and an arm insurg against the isra will continu as long as israel is in gaza . ” the isra rescu in gaza , which result in the death of one isra special forc offic , wa consid a success oper by israel ’ s top author , despit the carnag in nuseirat that ha been larg ignor in israel . “ if anyon believ that [ saturday ’ s ] oper absolv the govern to strike a deal , they are live a fantasi , ” nahum barnea , an isra polit comment , wrote in the yedioth ahronoth newspap . “ the opposit is true . the joy over the success rescu of the four onli evinc the need for a deal . ” hour after the four freed hostag arriv in a hospit near tel aviv , mr netanyahu visit them and their famili . it did not go unnot that thi happen befor the end of the jewish sabbath , when offici activ are often mute , and wa accompani by a torrent of video and photo releas by hi team . “ when the end is bad , the prime minist doesn ’ t show up . he doesn ’ t call , either , ” avi marciano , whose daughter noa wa kill in captiv , wrote on facebook . us secretari of state antoni blinken is back in the middl east , hi eighth trip to the region sinc the hama attack , in anoth effort to push for a deal . there are also grow concern that , without a ceasefir in gaza , violenc might escal along israel ’ s border with lebanon , where the iranian - back hezbollah movement ha carri out near - daili attack . with a wide gap remain between israel and hama , us pressur is not a guarante of progress . “ there ’ s no quick end to thi war … thi could theoret go on for year , ” mr baskin said . “ i realli want to be optimist , but it ’ s veri difficult to be . ”