israel ' s deep polit divis are back on public display . they were put to one side for a while , as shock and nation uniti follow the 7 octob attack by hama - but six month later , thousand of protest are onc again on israel ' s street . the war ha turbocharg their determin to unseat israel ' s longest - serv prime minist , benjamin netanyahu . in jerusalem , polic use skunk water - a foul - smell substanc fire from water cannon - to clear protest who had block the begin boulevard , the citi ' s major north - south highway . well - worn slogan demand hi resign and earli elect were amplifi by newer one call for an immedi deal to free about 130 isra hostag still held in gaza . an unknown number of them are presum dead . the big fear of their famili and friend , as well as the protest , is that mani more will die the longer the war drag on without a deal . on sunday even , as thousand pack the broad avenu around the isra parliament , katia amorza - who ha a son serv in the isra armi in gaza - put down her megaphon for a moment . `` sinc eight thi morn , i ' m here . and now i ' m tell netanyahu that i would be glad to pay one way ticket , first class , for him to go out and not come back anymor . `` and i ' m tell him also to take with him all those peopl that they put in the govern that he chose one by one , the worst , the worst that we have in our societi . '' a rabbi cross the road past katia and her megaphon . it wa yehudah glick , who campaign for jewish prayer to be allow in the area known to jew as the templ mount , the holiest site in judaism , as well as be home to al - aqsa mosqu , the third holiest site in islam . rabbi glick said the protest have forgotten that their real enemi is hama , not prime minist netanyahu . `` i think he ' s veri popular . and that ' s what aggrav these peopl . i think these peopl , are not will to forgiv the fact that for so long they ' ve been demonstr against him and he ' s still in power . `` and i ' m call upon them to demonstr , to come and demonstr , speak loud and clear what they feel , but to be care not to cross the veri thin line between democraci and anarchi . '' the protest , and mr netanyahu ' s critic in countri that otherwis support israel , believ the enemi of democraci are alreadi in hi govern , a coalit that depend on the support of ultranationalist jewish parti . among them is the religi zionism parti , led by the financ minist bezalel smotrich . one of it mp , ohad tal , said it wa `` naã ¯ ve `` to believ anyth other than more militari pressur on hama would free the hostag . `` you don ' t think hama will bring back so easili the hostag in a deal , releas everybodi and then will allow us to , you know , to kill all the terrorist that we would releas in such a deal ... it ' s not as simpl . `` if there wa a button that you can press and bring back all the hostag and make everyth okay , everi isra would press thi button . but it ' s not as easi as you may think . '' benjamin netanyahu use to say he wa the onli one who could keep hi countri safe . mani isra believ him . he said that he could manag the palestinian , settl jew on the occupi land they want for a state , without offer the concess and make the sacrific necessari for a peac deal . all that chang on 7 octob last year when hama storm through the border wire . mani isra hold him respons for the secur laps that allow hama to attack israel with such devast effect . unlik hi secur chief , who rapidli issu statement admit they had made mistak , mr netanyahu ha never admit ani respons . that infuri the thousand who block street in jerusalem on sunday even . isra must be someth like 40 year old at least to rememb a time when benjamin netanyahu wa not a domin figur in their countri ' s polit . after emerg as an eloqu spokesman for israel at the unit nation , hi first stint as prime minist came after a narrow victori in 1996 on a platform oppos the oslo peac process . like the current american plan to make peac in the middl east , the oslo deal were built around the idea that allow palestinian to establish an independ state alongsid israel wa the onli hope of end a centuri of conflict between arab and jew over control of the land between the river jordan and the mediterranean sea . mr netanyahu ha been a consist oppon of a palestinian state . he ha contemptu dismiss the us strategi of back for palestinian independ as part of a `` grand bargain `` to remak the middl east . hi critic here say hi strident reject of presid joe biden ' s plan for govern in gaza after the war is a tool to secur the continu support of israel ' s extrem right wing . one of the protest outsid the knesset wa david agmon , a retir brigadi gener in the isra armi . he ran the prime minist ' s offic when mr netanyahu wa first elect . `` it ' s the biggest crisi ever sinc 1948 . i ' ll tell you someth els . i wa the first chief of staff for netanyahu in 1996 , so i know him , and after three month i decid to leav . becaus i realis who he is - a danger to israel . `` he doesn ' t know how to take decis , he is afraid , the onli thing he know is to speak . and of cours , i saw he depend on hi wife , and i saw hi lie . and after three month i told him , ' bibi , you don ' t need aid , you need a replac . ' and i left . '' while the protest were still on the street , mr netanyahu rule out earli elect and repeat hi determin to mount a new offens against hama forc in rafah . hi record as a polit survivor and formid campaign mean that even if hi oppon get their wish for earli elect , hi dwindl band of devot follow believ he might even win . isra are not divid about destroy hama . that war aim ha overwhelm support . but the way the war is be handl , and the failur to rescu or free all the hostag , is put benjamin netanyahu under career - end pressur .