israel ha accus south africa of distort realiti in it attempt to get the un ' s top court to forc it to stop it militari campaign in the town of rafah in southern gaza . the intern court of justic ( icj ) began two day of hear on thursday , when south africa told the court that israel intend to `` wipe [ the palestinian ] off the face of the earth `` , call rafah `` the final stand `` . lawyer for israel present their respons to the court on friday . the court is alreadi consid a case brought by south africa in januari accus israel of commit genocid against the palestinian in gaza . israel ha reject the claim as fals and `` grossli distort `` . in it latest applic , south africa is also seek to forc israel to allow `` unimped access `` to gaza for aid worker , journalist and investig . south africa laid out it case to the court at the hagu , accus israel of escal what is say is a genocid campaign against the palestinian . the rafah campaign wa `` the last step in the destruct of gaza and it palestinian peopl `` , south african barrist vaughan low kc told the court . '' it wa rafah that brought south africa to the court . but it is all palestinian as a nation , ethnic and racial group who need the protect from genocid that the court can order , '' he said . but , deliv israel ' s respons , it deputi attorney gener , gilad noam , said that wa an invers of realiti . '' south africa warn thi court that , i quot , ' if rafah fall , so too doe gaza ' . onc again howev , the realiti is exactli the opposit , '' he said . '' onli by bring down hama ' s militari stronghold in rafah will palestinian be liber from the clench grip of the murder terrorist regim and the road to peac and prosper may final be pave . '' the hear wa briefli interrupt when a woman shout `` liar `` dure the isra submiss befor be remov by secur guard . meanwhil , in a post on x , isra foreign ministri spokesman oren marmorstein call on the icj `` to reject south africa ' s appeal and to bring the abus of the court to an end `` . israel began it attack on hama in rafah 11 day ago , amid warn from the un and other of a grave risk to civilian . more than a million displac peopl had taken refug in rafah and more than 630 , 000 have now fled from there sinc the start of the oper , the un say . israel say it offens in rafah is necessari in order to destroy the last remain hama battalion which are base there and to rescu some 130 remain isra hostag who it believ are be held there . in januari , in a highli charg case which wa close watch around the world , the icj order israel to take measur to prevent potenti genocid act in gaza . it also order israel to do more to enabl the provis of aid to the peopl there . the then presid of the court , joan donoghu , told the bbc last month that the icj did not decid that there wa a plausibl case for genocid , but rather that the palestinian had a right to be protect from genocid . the icj is not expect to deliv a rule on the genocid case for sever year . it rule are legal bind , but in practic unenforc by the court . the latest applic is the fourth which south africa , whose govern parti ha a long histori of solidar with the palestinian caus , ha file with the icj against israel ' s action in gaza . israel began it offens in gaza after gunmen from the rule palestinian group hama launch an unpreced attack on israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other hostag . at least 35 , 303 peopl have been kill by israel in the war in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri .