the un ' s top court is hear israel ' s respons to a case brought by south africa seek an emerg halt to it offens in rafah . south africa ha also accus israel of genocid in the gaza war . israel , which ha call south africa ' s case `` wholli unfound `` and `` moral repugn `` , respond on friday accus south africa of bring `` bias and fals claim `` . the word of the intern court of justic ( icj ) have been subject to intens scrutini sinc south africa brought it case and it ’ s centr around the use of the word “ plausibl ” in the rule . in januari , the icj deliv an interim judgement - and one key paragraph from the rule drew the most attent : “ in the court ’ s view , the fact and circumst ... are suffici to conclud that at least some of the right claim by south africa and for which it is seek protect are plausibl . ” thi wa interpret by mani , includ some legal comment , to mean that the court had conclud that the claim that israel wa commit genocid in gaza wa “ plausibl ” . thi interpret spread quickli , appear in un press releas , statement from campaign group and mani media outlet , includ the bbc . in april , howev , joan donoghu , the presid of the icj at the time of that rule , said in a bbc interview that thi wa not what the court had rule . rather , she said , the purpos of the rule wa to declar that south africa had a right to bring it case against israel and that palestinian had “ plausibl right to protect from genocid ” - right which were at a real risk of irrepar damag . the judg had stress they did not need to say for now whether a genocid had occur but conclud that some of the act south africa complain about , if they were proven , could fall under the unit nation ’ convent on genocid . let ’ s look at the background of the case and how the legal disput unfold . the icj wa set up to deal with disput between the nation of the world relat to intern law . that mean law that are agre between nation , such as the genocid convent , a key measur agre after world war two to tri to prevent such mass slaughter again . last decemb , south africa launch an attempt at the icj to prove that , in it view , israel wa commit genocid in relat to how it wa perpetr the war against hama in the gaza strip . it alleg that the way israel had prosecut the war wa “ genocid in natur ” becaus , accord to the south african case , there wa an intent to “ destroy palestinian in gaza ” . israel absolut reject these alleg , say the entir case misrepres what wa happen on the ground . south africa would need to show the court clear and hard evid of an alleg plan to commit genocid . israel , for it part , would have a right to examin those claim one by one and argu that it action , in a dread urban war , were legitim self - defenc against hama , which is design as a terrorist group by dozen of countri . that full case could take year to prepar and argu . so south africa ask the icj judg to first issu “ provision measur ” . that ’ s the icj ’ s term for a court injunct - an order from a judg to freez a situat , to prevent ani harm be done , befor a final court find can be reach . the court wa ask to order israel to take step to “ protect against further , sever and irrepar harm to the right of the palestinian peopl ” . over two day lawyer for both countri argu over whether palestinian in gaza had right that the court need to protect . the rule , to which 17 judg contribut ( with some of them disagre ) , came on 26 januari . “ at thi stage of the proceed , the court is not call upon to determin definit whether the right which south africa wish to see protect exist , ” said the icj . “ it need onli decid whether the right claim by south africa , and for which it is seek protect , are plausibl . “ in the court ’ s view , the fact and circumst ... are suffici to conclud that at least some of the right claim by south africa and for which it is seek protect are plausibl . ” have decid that palestinian in gaza had plausibl right under the genocid convent , it conclud that they were at real risk of irrepar damag - and israel should take step to prevent genocid from occur while these critic issu remain in question . the court did not rule whether israel had commit genocid - but did it word mean that it wa convinc there wa a risk of that happen ? thi is where the disput over what the court actual meant then took off . in april , some 600 british lawyer includ four former suprem court justic , sign a letter to the uk prime minist , ask him to stop arm sale to israel and refer to “ a plausibl risk of genocid ” . that trigger a counter - letter from uk lawyer for israel ( uklfi ) . the 1 , 300 - strong group said the icj had onli rule that gaza palestinian had a plausibl right to be protect from genocid - in other word , that it had been deal with a complex and somewhat abstract legal argument . the disput continu in more letter and interpret . mani in the first group describ uklfi ’ s interpret as “ empti wordplay ” . the court , they argu , can not have been sole concern with an academ question - becaus the stake were far higher than that . and , of all place , the debat crystallis in legal spar befor a uk parliamentari committe , debat the question of arm export to israel . lord sumption , a former uk suprem court justic , told the committe : “ i think it is be suggest [ in the uklfi letter ] that all that the icj wa do wa accept , as a matter of abstract law , that the inhabit of gaza had a right not to be subject to genocid . i have to say that i regard that proposit as bare arguabl . ” not so , respond natasha hausdorff of uk lawyer for israel . “ i respect insist that read a find of plausibl risk that israel is commit genocid disregard the court ’ s unambigu statement , ” she repli . a day later , joan donoghu - now retir from the icj - appear on the bbc ’ s hardtalk programm and explicitli tri to end the debat by set out what the court had done . “ it did not decid - and thi is someth where i ' m correct what ' s often said in the media ... that the claim of genocid wa plausibl , ” said the judg . “ it did emphasis in the order that there wa a risk of irrepar harm to the palestinian right to be protect from genocid . but the shorthand that often appear , which is that there ' s a plausibl case of genocid , isn ' t what the court decid . ” whether there is ani evid of such terribl harm is a question the court is far from decid .