an isra missil ha hit iran , us offici have told the bbc ' s partner cb news - an attack that is wide seen as it respons to iran ' s missil and drone attack on israel . iran ' s own direct attack on israel - it first ever - wa in turn retali for an isra strike on the iranian consul in the syrian capit damascu , which kill senior militari command . previous israel and iran had been engag in a year - long shadow war - attack each other ' s asset without admit respons . those attack have ratchet up consider dure the current war in gaza spark by the palestinian group hama ' s assault on nearbi isra commun last octob . the two countri were alli until the 1979 islam revolut in iran , which brought in a regim that ha use oppos israel as a key part of it ideolog . iran doe not recognis israel ' s right to exist and seek it erad . the countri ' s suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , ha previous call israel a `` cancer tumour `` that `` will undoubtedli be uproot and destroy `` . israel believ that iran pose an existenti threat as evidenc by tehran ' s rhetor , it build - up of proxi forc in the region includ the lebanes shia milit group hezbollah that are sworn to israel ' s destruct , and it fund and arm of palestinian group includ hama . it also accus iran of secretli tri to develop nuclear weapon , though iran deni seek to build a nuclear bomb . the 1 april air strike on an iranian consul build in the syrian capit damascu kill 13 peopl . iran said it wa a violat of it sovereignti . those kill includ brig gen mohammad reza zahedi - a senior command in the qud forc , the oversea branch of iran ' s elit republican guard ( irgc ) . he had been a key figur in the iranian oper to arm the lebanes shia arm group hezbollah . the consul attack follow a pattern of air strike against iranian target wide attribut to israel . sever senior irgc command have been kill in air strike in syria in recent month . the irgc channel arm and equip , includ high precis missil , through syria to hezbollah . israel is tri to stop these deliveri , as well as seek to prevent iran from strengthen it militari presenc in syria . iran launch more than 300 drone and missil toward israel , the isra militari said . the attack includ 170 drone and 30 cruis missil and at least 110 ballist missil . some 99 % of the incom barrag wa intercept either outsid isra airspac or over the countri itself , israel said . israel and countri includ the us , uk , franc and jordan intercept drone and cruis missil while it three - trier umbrella of missil defenc system intercept ballist missil . nevertheless , two us offici told cb news that five ballist missil evad air defenc and impact on isra territori . four land in the nevatim air base in the negev desert in southern israel - where the countri ' s f - 35 fighter jet are base - which the offici said wa iran ' s primari target . the isra militari said the base had been `` lightli hit `` . tom fletcher , a foreign polici advisor to sever uk prime minist and a former uk ambassador to lebanon , said `` iran did telegraph these attack in advanc which made them easier to deter `` . sanam vakil from the chatham hous think tank said : `` the strike were certainli calibr , direct to militari instal with the aim of not inflict too much damag or hurt anyon . '' us offici have confirm to the bbc ' s partner cb news that an isra strike target iran in the earli hour of friday . it is unclear what type of weapon were use and where they were launch from . us sourc said a missil wa involv in the attack , while iran said it had involv small drone . iran ' s far news agenc said explos were heard near an armi base and air defenc system were activ . hossein dalirian , a spokesman for iran ' s nation centr of cyberspac , said there wa `` no air attack from outsid border `` . he said israel had `` onli made a fail and humili attempt to fli quadcopt [ drone ] and the quadcopt have also been shot down `` . isfahan provinc is a larg area in the centr of iran which take it name from it largest citi . the region is home to signific iranian militari infrastructur , includ a larg airbas , a major missil product complex and sever nuclear facil . iran is much bigger than israel geograph and ha a popul of nearli 90 million , nearli ten time as big as israel ' s - but thi doe not translat into greater militari power . iran ha invest heavili in missil and drone . it ha a vast arsen of it own , but ha also been suppli signific amount to it proxi - the houthi in yemen and hezbollah in lebanon . what it lack is modern air defenc system and fighter jet . russia is believ to be co - oper with iran to improv those , includ by provid su - 35 fighter jet , in return for the militari support tehran ha given moscow in it war on ukrain . by contrast , israel ha one of the most advanc air forc in the world . accord to the iiss militari balanc report , israel ha at least 14 squadron of jet - includ f - 15 , f - 16 and the latest f - 35 stealth jet . israel also ha experi of conduct strike deep insid hostil territori . the shortest distanc between iran and israel is about 1 , 000km ( 620 mile ) . israel is assum to have it own nuclear weapon but maintain an offici polici of deliber ambigu . iran doe not have nuclear weapon and also deni it is attempt to use it civilian nuclear programm to becom a nuclear arm state . last year the global nuclear watchdog found uranium particl enrich to 83 . 7 % puriti - veri close to weapon grade - at iran ' s underground fordo site . iran said `` unintend fluctuat `` in enrich level may have occur . iran ha been openli enrich uranium to 60 % puriti for more than two year in breach of a 2015 nuclear deal with world power . howev that deal ha been close to collaps sinc us presid donald trump pull out unilater and reinstat crippl sanction on iran in 2018 . israel had oppos the nuclear deal in the first place . iran ha built up a network of alli and proxi forc in the middl east that it say form part of an `` axi of resist `` challeng us and isra interest in the region . it support them to vari degre . syria is iran ' s most import alli . iran , along with russia , help the syrian govern of bashar al - assad surviv the countri ' s decad - long civil war . iran ' s relationship with russia is also becom increasingli signific . in decemb the russian foreign ministri said the countri would speed up work on a `` major new interst agreement `` . iran ha provid russia with shahe attack drone . in februari , reuter quot sourc as say iran had also provid ballist missil . iran deni the report . meanwhil iran say russia plan to provid iran with more advanc aircraft . of the arm group that iran back , hezbollah in lebanon is the most power . it ha been trade cross - border fire with israel on an almost daili basi sinc war erupt between israel and hama . ten of thousand of civilian on both side of the border have been forc to leav their home . iran back sever shia militia in iraq which have attack us base in iraq , syria and jordan with rocket fire . the us retali after three of it soldier were kill at a militari outpost in jordan . in yemen , iran provid support to the houthi movement , which control the most popul area of the countri . the houthi have fire missil and drone at israel and have also been attack commerci ship near it shore , sink at least one vessel . the us and uk have struck houthi target in respons . iran also provid weapon and train to palestinian arm group includ hama , which attack israel on 7 octob last year . howev , iran deni ani role in the 7 octob attack itself .