coach pedro martinez losa said it wa hi `` duti to lead scotland whether i feel comfort play against israel or not `` as he name hi squad for the two women ' s european championship qualifi in may and june . pro - palestinian protest are expect outsid hampden park for scotland ' s home match on 31 may , and ticket restrict are alreadi in place . onli scotland support ' club member or those who have gone to ani of scotland women ' s past four home match can buy ticket . ask about the potenti for protest becaus of the ongo gaza war , martinez losa said : `` that is an aspect we can not control . `` as a head coach , i am not in control of these circumst . we have been put in a posit where uefa ha said we have to play these game . '' whether i ' m comfort or not from my person view doesn ' t matter , the job ha to be done for scotland and i remain focus on that . '' we will discuss the disrupt of restrict ticket and venu chang with the leadership group and staff to make sure player are protect . '' after the first game in glasgow , scotland then face israel on 4 june at the bsc stadium in budapest , hungari as they continu their push for a place in the final in switzerland next summer . forward kirsti hanson and martha thoma are back in the spanish coach ' s squad for the game against israel . aston villa winger hanson and tottenham hotspur forward thoma are join in the pool by ranger full - back rachel mclauchlan follow injuri . glasgow citi winger lauren davidson and celtic playmak ami gallach drop out while ac milan midfield christi grimshaw , glasgow citi forward fiona brown and manchest citi goalkeep sandi maciv are all miss becaus of acl injuri . there is also no place for hibernian defend leah eddi and glasgow citi midfield hayley lauder . eddi , lauder and grimshaw pull out of the last camp and were replac by brogan hay , kelli clark and christi harrison - murray . hay and clark are in martinez losa ' s latest squad but harrison - murray - who came on in the open qualifi against serbia - ha not been name . scotland ' s qualif campaign got under way against serbia last month with a 0 - 0 draw in leskovac . that wa follow by a 1 - 0 win against slovakia at hampden thank to sophi howard ' s header . scotland sit joint top of group b2 with serbia on four point while israel have lost both qualifi game so far . scotland squad to face israeljenna clark ( liverpool ) , kelli clark ( celtic ) , chelsea cornet ( ranger ) , rachel corsi ( aston villa ) , eartha cume ( rosengard ) , erin cuthbert ( chelsea ) , nicola docherti ( ranger ) , clair emsli ( angel citi ) , lisa evan ( bristol citi ) , sarah ewen ( ranger ) , jenna fife ( ranger ) , lee gibson ( glasgow citi ) , kirsti hanson ( aston villa ) , brogan hay ( ranger ) , sophi howard ( leicest citi ) , kirsti howat ( ranger ) , sam kerr ( bayern ) , rachel mclauchlan ( ranger ) , jami - lee napier ( bristol citi ) , ami rodger ( bristol citi ) , jane ross ( ranger ) , kirsti smith ( west ham unit ) , martha thoma ( tottenham hotspur ) .