first minist john swinney ha written to prime minist rishi sunak and the labour leader sir keir starmer to demand that they recognis the state of palestin . speak on a campaign visit to an exhibit of poem written by children in gaza , the snp leader claim hi parti had been westminst ’ s moral compass on the conflict . and mr swinney argu the uk should follow the lead of ireland , norway and spain in recognis a palestinian state . in recent month the uk govern ha said it wa consid such a move . sir keir last week said he want to recognis a palestinian state if he won power but ad it would need to come at the right time in a peac process . on monday mr swinney said the snp would forc the issu to a vote in the hous of common after the elect . hi predecessor , humza yousaf wrote to the prime minist and the uk labour leader last year call for the same action . two month later the foreign secretari suggest britain wa readi to bring forward the moment when it formal recognis a palestinian state . lord cameron said palestinian had to be given a polit horizon to encourag peac in the middl east . labour ' s uk and scottish leader have share differ view on issu relat to the conflict in israel and gaza . sir keir previous call for a `` humanitarian paus `` in the conflict and a sustain ceasefir . the labour leader also insist israel had a right to defend itself within intern law . meanwhil , the parti ' s scottish leader , ana sarwar , back a motion call for an immedi ceasefir dure hi parti confer in februari . despit thi , mr sarwar previous told bbc radio ' s good morn scotland programm that there wasn ' t `` as much distanc `` between hi and sir keir ' s view as some believ . he said : `` keir starmer ha said he want the fight to stop right now and for that to be a sustain ceasefir . i think we ultim have the same posit . '' the liber democrat have been call for an immedi bilater ceasefir in order to `` stop the humanitarian catastroph in gaza , get the hostag out and provid the space for a path toward a two - state solut `` . israel ' s militari campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other back to gaza as hostag . nearli 36 , 000 palestinian have been kill in the war sinc then , accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri . most countri - about 139 in all , extern - alreadi formal recognis a palestinian state . on 10 may , 143 out of 193 member of the unit nation ’ gener assembl vote in favour of a palestinian bid for full un membership , someth that is onli open to state . palestin current ha a kind of enhanc observ statu at the un , which give them a seat but not a vote in the assembl . it is also recognis by variou intern organis includ the arab leagu and the organis of islam cooper . a minor of european countri alreadi recognis a palestinian state . they compris hungari , poland , romania , the czech republ , slovakia , and bulgaria which adopt the posit 1988 ; and other includ sweden and cypru . but mani european nation - and the unit state - say they will recognis a palestinian state onli as part of a long - term polit solut to the conflict in the middl east . thi is often refer to as the `` two - state solut `` where both isra and palestinian agre to have their own state with their own border .