in the isra - occupi west bank , a group of isra settler storm a palestinian villag and , captur on cctv , a mask man set fire to a car park in a garag , under the watch of at least three isra soldier . the incid wa part of a rampag by isra settler that , accord to local offici , kill four palestinian over four day . the violenc wa trigger by the disappear of 14 - year - old binyamin ahimeir , who went miss on friday after leav hi settler outpost to herd sheep near the palestinian villag of mughayir , in the ramallah area . hi bodi wa found a day later , and the israel defens forc ( idf ) said he had been kill in a `` terrorist attack `` . amid the search for the boy , dozen of settler , some of them arm , raid mughayir . they burn home and car , and kill a 25 - year - old man name jihad abu alia with a shot in the chest , accord to palestinian offici . sameh abu alia , hi cousin , said jihad , who would get marri in june , wa tri to prevent the settler from storm the famili ' s hous . `` it wasn ' t the first time settler attack us . but we weren ' t expect a huge number of them , '' he said . `` they shot at the water tank , the electr network , and the internet . they were plan to isol us from the outsid world . '' settler , arm with gun and stone , return to the villag on saturday . shaul golan , a photograph for the isra newspap yedioth ahronoth , said he wa attack by a group of between 20 to 30 peopl , some of whom were arm and wear idf uniform , as he hid under a tabl in one of the burn hous while tri to cover the rampag . `` they beat me mercilessli , break my finger and take my bag to burn all of the photographi equip insid , '' he said in an interview publish on the newspap ' s websit . `` i laid on the floor , as everi one of them kick me in the head and stomachâ €¦ they had hate in their eye . '' violenc spread to other area . in the villag of dayr dibwan , cctv video share by yesh din , an isra human right group which monitor west bank violenc , show mask settler enter a privat garag and set a vehicl on fire , while isra soldier stand watch . respond to the footag , the idf said the incid wa be examin and that the soldier would `` be dealt with accordingli `` , reuter report . in nearbi beitin on saturday a 17 - year - old boy , omar hame , wa kill after be hit by a bullet in the head in an attack by a group of 30 settler who had been accompani by isra forc , palestinian offici said . it wa not clear whether he wa shot by isra forc or settler . after the boy ' s bodi wa found , isra author warn peopl against reveng . but across the west bank , yesh din receiv report of attack on 10 villag and town , with extens damag to properti and livestock . `` the attack were of an unpreced scale . i can ' t rememb a day when we saw so mani place attack at onc . it wa a veri violent day with hundr of settler , '' said ziv stahl , the group ' s director . `` in mani place there were soldier who were not onli allow them to do whatev they want but also provid them protect . we see that in a lot of case , but [ on saturday ] it wa caught on camera `` . on monday , two palestinian - 30 - year - old abdul rahman bani fadel and 21 - year - old mohammad bani jamea - were shot dead dure an attack by dozen of settler , mani of them arm , near the town of aqraba , south - east of nablu in the northern west bank , accord to local offici . the isra militari said it wa look into the incid . `` we ' re concern that the settler might come back , '' salah bani jaber , the mayor of aqraba , said . `` the isra armi and polic are not prevent them from attack palestinian villag and town ... `` the settler are plan to push us out from our land . '' across the west bank , isra raid kill three palestinian - 17 - year - old yazan ishtayeh in nablu on monday , and mohammad shahmawi , 22 , and mohammad rasoul daraghmeh , 26 , a suspect hama member , in tuba on friday . around 700 , 000 isra live in 160 settlement alongsid 2 . 7 million palestinian in the occupi west bank and east jerusalem , accord to the settlement watchdog peac now . almost all of the intern commun regard the settlement as illeg , although israel disput thi . there are also about 160 so - call outpost , or small settlement which have been built without offici approv and are consid illeg under isra law . tension were alreadi high befor 7 octob , when hama launch a deadli attack on israel , spark the war in gaza . sinc then , more than 460 palestinian have been kill in the west bank , accord to the palestinian health ministri . those death includ arm fighter amid a rise in raid by the isra militari on palestinian town and villag . in the same period , at least 13 isra have been kill in the west bank , includ two member of israel ' s secur forc . human right group say incid of settler attack , and alleg involv of the secur forc , are rare fulli investig , with impun virtual the norm . `` there ' s no account , '' ms stahl , from yesh din , said . the recent violenc ha spark concern from foreign govern , and the us , israel ' s main alli , ha impos sanction on sever isra outpost and settler involv in attack on palestinian . on tuesday , the un human right offic call on isra secur forc to end what it call their activ particip in and support for attack by settler in the west bank . addit report by alaa daraghm in the west bank and narind kalsi in jerusalem