the brother of isra hostag naama levi ha said the famili ’ s decis to releas new harrow video of the moment hi sister and other femal hostag were kidnap is to remind the world and world leader that they need to push for a deal to secur their releas . nineteen - year - old naama and six other young women were taken by hama gunmen from the nahal oz militari base on 7 octob , where they were serv as observ monitor surveil camera of the nearbi gaza perimet fenc . in a hama video previous seen around the world when she wa taken to gaza , naama wa shown with blood around the crotch of her trouser , with her hand tie and ankl cut . now , the famili of naama and four of the other women have decid to releas further video footag film by the bodi camera worn by the hama kidnapp . it show the moment they seiz and tie up the teenag , have kill other at the base . warn : thi articl contain detail some reader may find disturb . in the three minut of video , the gunmen can be seen scream at the women , some still in their pyjama , most of whom have bloodi face . they are tie up against a wall befor be bundl into a jeep with obviou injuri . the gunmen tell them in arab : “ you dog , we will step on you ... we will shoot you all . ” one say in english : `` you ' re beauti . '' naama , her face cover in blood , say to them in english : “ i have friend in palestin . ” she had previous been part of an isra - palestinian peac initi . her famili have call her “ a peac seeker ” . naama ’ s brother , amit , is on a visit to london to campaign for hi sister ’ s releas . he said the indirect talk between israel and hama to secur a gaza ceasefir and hostag releas deal were in “ a veri bad place ” . “ we hope that thi video will encourag all side to get back to the tabl and understand that it ’ s an unbear humanitarian issu that need to be solv , ” he told the bbc . “ thi might be the last chanc to save them . ” amit said that when he saw the video releas on thursday it wa a “ veri hard watch ... see my littl sister with such a ... such a look in her eye ” . “ i never imagin i would see her thi frighten and hurt , ” he ad . but he also said he took strength from the video . “ we feel like she ' s handl the situat like the true superhero she is , like a hero fight for her life . ” of the seven femal observ at nahal oz who were kidnap , one – noa marciano - wa kill in gaza . the isra militari said troop found her bodi in a build near gaza citi ’ s al - shifa hospit in novemb . anoth , ori megidish , wa rescu by isra forc dure an oper insid gaza at the end of octob . teenag liri albag , 18 , karina ariev , 19 , daniela gilboa , 19 , and agam berger , 19 , are still be held along with naama . they have been hostag for 229 day . after see the video of naama with bloodi trouser when she wa kidnap , and hear the testimoni of other hostag , her famili are fear about the risk of sexual assault . “ it ’ s veri , veri hard for us . it ' s a fear ever sinc 7 octob that doesn ' t leav me , doesn ' t leav anyon in the famili , ” amit said . “ we realis that there is ... there is a chanc , mayb even a good chanc , that naama and other girl and men are be harass . and it ' s a fear that is pain in way that are indescrib . we just have to keep fight for her to get out of thi hell . ” naama ’ s mother , ayelet , said in a statement : “ we onli see in that video a fraction of the horribl thing that are go on in their surround in the shelter . “ she is terrifi and wound , there is fear in her eye , and she is say what she can , she is beg for her life . “ the top prioriti is to bring her home , bring them all home now . ” the hostag and miss famili forum said : “ the disturb video ha been the realiti of agam , daniela , liri , naama , karina , and 123 other hostag for 229 day . “ the video is a damn testament to the nation ' s failur to bring home the hostag . the isra govern must not wast even one more moment and it must return to the negoti tabl today . ” isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu said he wa “ shock ” by the footag and promis to do everyth to bring the hostag home . “ the brutal of the hama terrorist onli strengthen my determin to fight with all my strength until the elimin of hama , to ensur that what we saw tonight will never happen again , ” he wrote on x , formerli twitter . in a statement , hama said the video footag had been “ manipul ” and that it “ can not be verifi ” .