polic in lo angel have clear out a pro - palestinian encamp at the univers of southern california ( usc ) . offic in riot gear move into the site earli on sunday , as usc warn those who did not leav that they could be arrest , accord to cb , the bbc ' s us partner . no arrest have been report , and usc presid carol folt thank the polic and campu secur for clear the camp `` as peac and safe as possibl `` . rock by week of pro - palestinian protest , us univers are prepar for possibl disrupt at upcom graduat ceremoni . northeastern univers ’ s ceremoni in boston on sunday pass larg peac at the citi ’ s fenway park where polic were in attend . member of the graduat class held palestinian flag and chant pro - palestinian phrase . other student wave isra flag . the protest at usc in california end after offic form a perimet around the camp . zain khan , a usc student journalist , told cb that the encamp had around 100 peopl and wa clear out by `` dozen `` of polic offic and member of the univers ' s depart of public safeti ( dp ) . '' most of them peac left , some of them were chant , '' he said . usc later post on social media that the campu wa open to student , faculti , and staff with valid identif , but warn that `` tent and relat equip `` were not allow and could be confisc . in a statement on sunday , dr folt said action had to be taken becaus the encamp wa disrupt exam and prepar for commenc ceremoni , and the situat wa `` spiral in a danger direct `` . '' my goal were to prioritis safeti and return our campu and our surround commun to normalci , '' she said . '' we were determin to ensur our student could finish their exam without further disrupt and that usc could host the commenc celebr our graduat have work hard to earn . '' dr folt confirm earlier thi week that usc had start disciplinari investig into an unspecifi number of individu who `` violat our polici and the law `` , accord to cb . the proceed follow the arrest of 93 peopl at usc last month after polic and protest clash on campu . the clear out of the usc camp come just day after riot polic remov a similar encamp at the univers of california , lo angel ( ucla ) . earlier thi week , polic in new york arrest 112 protest after columbia univers sought help clear the manhattan campu . polic later confirm that an offic accident fire hi gun dure the clear out . there wa also campu tension at usc in mid - april when it announc it would cancel a graduat speech by a valedictorian muslim student , cite unspecifi secur concern . the move came after complaint that her social media presenc wa antisemit . the univers then cancel the main graduat ceremoni , which wa set to take place on 10 may . other commenc event are still set to take place on campu thi week . us univers have been rock by week of protest , with demonstr call for a ceasefir in the gaza war , and for academ institut to financi divest from israel and compani who stand to make money from the conflict . there have been demonstr at nearli 140 institut across 45 state and washington dc sinc the protest start at columbia univers last month , accord to a bbc talli . polic have detain more than 2 , 000 peopl nationwid in the past fortnight at colleg ralli and protest camp .