the australian state of victoria ha rule that mp can not wear keffiyeh scarv - a symbol of palestinian ident - in parliament . green parti leader ask for clarif after mp for the parti were ask to remov their keffiyeh . in a joint rule , both hous of the parliament of victoria said the scarf wa a `` polit `` symbol which mp were not permit to wear . the rule make the victorian legislatur one of the few in the world to enforc a ban on the item of cloth . on wednesday , upper hous presid shaun lean ask four green parti mp who had been wear keffiyeh to remov them . green parti leader ellen sandel sought to clarifi whether the rule wa a one - off or a perman ban . in respons , lower hous speaker mare edward said : “ polit paraphernalia and badg are not allow in the hous . my rule stand . ” but mr sandel argu that mp often wore item of cloth to show support for variou caus , `` all of which could arguabl be seen as polit `` . “ an mp today is wear a yellow pin , which could be perceiv by some as support for the isra militari . other are wear rainbow badg , '' she ad . the speaker declin to comment and said further clarif could be sought from her offic . mp david southwick welcom the ban , tell a local news outlet that hi yellow pin , worn in support of isra hostag in gaza , wa `` not even a comparison `` . green mp have taken to social media to protest against the rule . gabriel de vietri wrote on x : `` on nakba day , the victorian parliament ha ban the keffiyeh - one of the onli parliament in the world to do so . '' the nakba , which mean `` catastroph `` , is commemor by palestinian everi year on 15 may . on 14 may 1948 , israel declar independ , and in a war which began the next day , up to 750 , 000 palestinian who had live on that land fled or were expel from their home . neither they nor their descend have been allow by israel to return . the keffiyeh come in sever design and colour , and is thought to have origin among bedouin arab as a head cover to protect from the element . the black - and - white keffiyeh becam associ with palestinian ident dure the late 1930 . thi year ' s nakba day come as israel and hama are at war in the gaza strip . israel launch it militari campaign in gaza after hama attack nearbi isra commun on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and kidnap 252 other . more than 35 , 230 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri .