a sailor wa sever injur after a cargo ship in the gulf of aden wa struck by two cruis missil fire by the houthi in yemen , the us militari said . the injur sailor wa airlift to anoth ship for medic treatment , the us central command ( centcom ) report . it ad that crew member were fight a fire on board the mv verbena - a palauan - flag , ukrainian - own , polish - oper ship . centcom later said it had destroy two houthi patrol boat , one unman surfac vessel and one drone over the red sea in the last 24 hour . '' it wa determin these system present an immin threat to us , coalit forc , and merchant vessel in the region , '' centcom said in a statement . the houthi earlier said they had carri out attack on three ship within the past 24 hour , includ on the mv verbena , `` in retali to the crime commit against our peopl in the gaza strip , and in respons to the american - british aggress against our countri `` . thi latest attack come a day after the iranian - back group target a greek - own ship in the red sea , caus sever flood on board . the arm houthi group see itself as part of an iranian - led `` axi of resist `` against israel , the us and the wider west . sinc novemb , the rebel group ha been carri out attack on ship they say are link to israel in the red sea and the gulf of aden , say their action are in support of the palestinian in gaza . the us and the uk have carri out a seri of attack on houthi target insid yemen in respons , lead the houthi to retali against ship it believ are link to those countri . '' the houthi claim to be act on behalf of palestinian in gaza and yet they are target and threaten the live of third countri nation who have noth to do with the conflict in gaza , '' centcom said . the rebel ' attack on merchant vessel in the red sea prompt mani ship compani to stop use the waterway , through which about 12 % of global seaborn trade pass . on wednesday , the houthi target a liberian - flag vessel name tutor use a sea drone in the red sea . no casualti were report .