republican speaker of the hous mike johnson ha a plan for get new militari assist for ukrain approv by congress - and for keep hi tenuou hold on power . with democrat wari and a republican right flank eye open rebellion , howev , mr johnson may find that even the best - laid plan could quickli unravel . the louisiana congressman told fox news he would push the hous - which ha the narrowest of republican major - to structur new ukrain support in the form of loan . to help cover the cost he suggest authoris the us govern to seiz and sell russian asset frozen sinc the start of the ukrain war . `` if we can use the seiz asset of russian oligarch to allow the ukrainian to fight them , that ' s just pure poetri , '' said mr johnson . an estim $ 300bn ( £ 239bn ) in russian central bank asset have been frozen - although most of thi is under european , not american , control . as an addit sweeten for hi republican colleagu , he also propos tie the passag of ukrain aid to legisl end a hold on new liquefi natur ga export authoris . the hold wa impos by the biden administr in januari at the behest of environment activist . thi wouldn ' t be the first time republican have tri to tie ukrain assist - which is oppos by a grow number of conserv voter and a small but vocal group of legisl - to an unrel polit prioriti for the parti . in februari , senat republican negoti with democrat to construct a legisl packag that includ fund for ukrain along with conserv immigr reform and resourc for border secur . the deal collaps , howev , after republican presidenti candid donald trump voic hi opposit and hi support in congress - includ mr johnson in the hous - follow suit . the white hous say approv ukrain aid ran out at the begin of the year and ha repeatedli warn that the nation is lose ground in it war against russia becaus of a lack of continu american back . in the hous of repres , pro - aid legisl have been gather signatur for a parliamentari procedur that would trigger a vote on a senat - approv measur that authoris new aid for ukrain and israel - essenti forc mr johnson ' s hand . the hous speaker ' s latest propos may be a way to forestal such a direct eros of hi power to set the legisl agenda . as mr johnson grappl with how to help ukrain , howev , he stand on unstabl ground . the man who assum the speakership after hi predecessor wa oust last year by a right - wing rebellion is face similar unrest from hi parti ' s hard - core right . hi negoti deal with democrat to avoid a govern shutdown two week ago prompt one conserv firebrand , georgia congresswoman marjori taylor green , to file a motion for hi remov . while she ha not taken step to forc a vote on the matter , she ha warn that she will if mr johnson isn ' t ultim replac . later thi month , republican membership in the hous will drop to 217 - mean it would onli take two republican to join the chamber ' s 213 democrat to launch an attempt to oust mr johnson . on sunday night , mr johnson tri to reset expect for hi parti - and buy himself some breath room . `` we have the smallest major , liter , right now in us histori , '' he said . `` so we ' re not go to get the legisl that we all desir and prefer . '' thi mathemat realiti put the speaker in a delic situat . if he anger even a hand of republican , such as by strike a deal to help ukrain , it may trigger an upris . and if he doesn ' t do enough to placat democrat , they may onc again help the rebelli conserv execut their plot . with nation elect to decid the presid and control of both chamber of congress set for novemb , mr johnson - and hi fellow republican - can ill afford to appear rife with intern divis and incap of govern . `` thi is not an easi job right now , '' mr johnson said .