the latest round in the region ' s most danger rivalri appear to be over , for now . israel still ha not offici acknowledg that the attack in iran in the earli hour of friday morn wa it do . meanwhil , iran ' s militari and polit leader have downplay , dismiss and even mock that anyth of consequ happen at all . the account over what kind of weaponri wa deploy on friday and how much damag wa caus are still conflict and incomplet . american offici speak of a missil strike , but iranian offici say the attack , in the central provinc of isfahan and in northwest tabriz , were caus by small explod drone . `` the down micro air vehicl caus no damag and no casualti , '' iran ' s foreign minist hossein amir - abdollahian insist to the semi - offici tasnim news agenc . but these simpl quadcopt are israel ' s call card â €“ it ha deploy them time and again in it year of covert oper insid iran . thi time their main target wa the stori central provinc of isfahan , which is celebr for it stun islam heritag . of late , howev , the provinc is more famou for the natanz nuclear facil , the isfahan nuclear technolog centr and a major air base , which wa use dure iran ' s 14 april attack on israel . it is also an industri heartland hous factori which produc the drone and ballist missil that were fire by the hundr in israel ' s direct last sunday . so a limit oper seem to have carri a power warn â €“ that israel ha the intellig and asset to strike at will at iran ' s beat heart . it is a messag so urgent that israel made sure it wa sent befor , rather than after , the start of the jewish passov , as wa wide predict by israel watcher . us offici have also indic that israel target site such as iran ' s air defenc radar system , which protect natanz . there is still no confirm account of it success . so thi attack may also be just an open salvo . but it wa , for the moment , an unintend 85th birthday gift to iran ' s suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei . israel ' s offici silenc gave iran ' s ultim decis - maker vital polit space . tehran did not have to invok it new rule that whenev it arch - enemi strike , iran will hit back hard , with the risk of spark a peril escalatori spiral . iran is also bask in what it see as it new project of power . hardlin presid ebrahim raisi did not even mention these most recent event in hi friday speech . for the islam republ , it is all about what it dub oper true promis â €“ it unpreced onslaught against israel in the dead of night last sunday . he hail what he call hi countri ' s `` steeli will `` . iran ha pride itself for year on it `` strateg patienc `` , it polici of play a long game rather than retali immedi and directli to ani provoc . now , it is invok `` strateg deterr `` . thi new doctrin wa trigger by the 1 april attack on it diplomat compound in damascu , which destroy it consular annex and kill seven revolutionari guard , includ it most senior command in the region . iran ' s suprem leader wa under mount pressur to draw a line as israel ramp up it target dure the last six month of the grievou gaza war . no longer just strike tehran ' s asset , includ arm cach , build , base and suppli rout on battl ground like syria and lebanon , israel wa also assassin top - rank offici . a decad - long hostil , which had previous play out in shadow war and covert oper , erupt in open confront . whatev the specif of thi latest tit for tat , there is a more fundament prioriti for both side : deterr â €“ a more solid certainti that strike on it own soil will not happen again . if they do , there is a cost to pay , and it will hurt . for the moment there is an audibl sigh of relief in the region , and in capit far and wide . israel ' s latest move , under anxiou urg from it alli to limit it retali , will have eas thi tension , for now . everyon want to stop a catastroph all - out war . but no one will be in ani doubt that ani lull may not last . the region is still on fire . the gaza war grind on , caus a stagger number of palestinian casualti . under pressur from it staunchest alli , israel ha facilit the deliveri of greater quantiti of desper need aid , but the blight territori still teeter on the brink of famin . isra hostag have still not come home , and ceasefir talk are stall . israel still warn of battl to come in hama ' s last stronghold in rafah â €“ what aid chief and world leader say would be yet anoth untold humanitarian disast . iran ' s network of proxi across the region , what it call an `` axi of resist `` stretch from hezbollah stronghold in lebanon through iran - align militia in iraq and syria , to the houthi of yemen , are at the readi , still attack daili . in the last few week , simultan everyth and noth ha chang in the region ' s darkest , most danger day .