a protest chain himself to the goalpost befor scotland ’ s women ' s euro 2025 qualifi against israel at glasgow ' s hampden stadium . the match , which is be play behind close door , wa delay after the man use a heavi duti lock to secur himself to the post in protest at israel ' s militari oper in gaza . when the two side return to the field , the isra team held up a t - shirt bear the messag `` bring them home `` in refer to hostag taken by the hama group in the offici team photo . the game eventu kick off 45 minut later than plan , with scotland run out 4 - 1 winner . sever hundr peopl , some carri small coffin and palestinian flag , had gather outsid the door of the main stand . the protest who gain entri to the nation stadium wa earlier wear a hi - vi vest , so he may have been mistaken for a steward . he wa cut free from the post and led from the pitch by polic . player were seen discuss a second warm - up and whether it wa safe to return to the pitch shortli befor the match got under way . the israel player then display the shirt of teammat sharon beck , who miss the game through injuri , and a t - shirt call for the releas of hostag naama levi . the 19 - year - old and six other young women were taken by hama gunmen from the nahal oz militari base on 7 octob . the match kick off to the sound of demonstr outsid boo , blow whistl and set off firework . a hand of counter - protest also demonstr befor the group b2 game . last week , the sfa said it had been left with `` no option `` but to bar support from attend `` follow extens secur consult with all key parti `` . public demonstr against israel ' s militari oper in gaza have been happen regularli across the uk . one group - the gaza genocid emerg committe - arrang a protest befor the game at hampden and call for the match to be cancel . polic scotland said : `` appropri polic plan are in place to maintain public safeti and minimis ani disrupt to the commun . '' israel wa ban from host ani footbal match by uefa for secur reason in the aftermath of the 7 octob attack by hama and the isra govern ' s militari respons . instead , the isra nation side and it club team have play fixtur at neutral venu in hungari . tuesday ' s return game between scotland and israel in budapest will also be play behind close door .