the us ha announc sanction against three more isra settler and - for the first time - two farm outpost , as part of new measur by washington and london to stop the violent displac of palestinian in the occupi west bank . fare samamreh may not carri a gun , but he ha a global superpow defend him . he ' s still lose the fight . a palestinian sheep farmer on the sun - ting slope of the south hebron hill in the occupi west bank , hi battl with hi neighbour , an isra settler call yinon levi , ha drawn both the us and the uk into the disput . `` yinon levi came here three year ago and start bother me , '' fare said , hi head wrap in a piec of white cotton , hi eye narrow in a perman squint against the sun . `` befor the war [ in gaza ] it wa the usual thing ; they would come with drone . but a few day after 7 octob , it becam seriou . they all had gun . they start come to us day and night . i have littl kid - some of them are four and five year old . '' fare said yinon wa one of a group of local isra settler who would regularli come to harass hi sheep with their dog and weapon , and even , he say , to assault hi famili . `` they destroy water tank , close down road , they fire at the sheep , '' he said . `` he told my wife if we didn ' t leav here , we ' d all be kill . '' he said when hi wife then swore at him , yinon levi hit her with the butt of hi gun . soon afterward , fare and hi famili left their villag of zanuta . activist say it ' s one of four commun around the settler ' s farm that have been abandon by their resid . yinon ha deni act violent toward palestinian in the area - and said he didn ' t own a gun until veri recent . but he ' s the subject of sanction from both the us and the uk . the road to yinon ' s farm is straight out of a children ' s pictur - book ; a narrow path that wind back and forth up a steep hill , slope and valley drop away to the horizon on either side . at the top , a spaciou bungalow stand next to a larg shed , full of bleat sheep smother the strain of pop music from a radio . `` we ' re safeguard these land to ensur they remain under jewish ownership , '' yinon said . `` when there is a jewish presenc , then there is no arab presenc . we keep a watch eye on the land , ensur that no unauthoris construct take place . '' most countri deem the settlement , which are built on land captur by israel in 1967 in the middl east war , to be illeg under intern law , although israel disagre . the settler outpost are also illeg under isra law . the uk said that yinon and anoth man had `` use physic aggress , threaten famili at gunpoint , and destroy properti as part of a target and calcul effort to displac palestinian commun `` . yinon deni the alleg , and said that the isra govern wa on hi side . `` i ' m not worri , '' he told the bbc . `` thi is not against me person - it ' s against those who obstruct the creation of a palestinian state . there ' s no legal process against me [ in israel ] . here , everyth is fine . '' both the uk and the us say there is a threshold of evid that must be met - but neither have made that evid public and declin to share it with the bbc . we sent yinon a video appear to show him on palestinian land , approach activist with a snarl dog . he said it wa mislead , and that he wa defend hi flock . we sent him anoth video appar show him enter anoth palestinian villag with a gun last octob . he declin to comment . the sanction came after a surg in violenc in the west bank , follow the 7 octob hama attack and israel ' s war in gaza . the un say violenc by isra settler includ physic attack and death threat , and that the number of palestinian displac from their home last year doubl to 1 , 539 - with more than 80 % of them leav after 7 octob . the uk ha said israel is fail to act , and ha describ `` an environ of near total impun for settler extremist in the west bank `` . yinon said that he had receiv support from isra politician . `` mani call and encourag us , '' he said . `` everyon said that when the bad peopl are against you , you must be do someth right . '' one of the politician who publicli back yinon in the wake of the sanction wa zvi sukkot of the ultranationalist religi zionism parti - a settler himself . he said that settler violenc wa a `` margin phenomenon `` and that those like levi were the victim of conspiraci . `` when we have a function judici system in israel , we don ' t want our alli to say , ' we ' ll do the job for you ' , '' he said . `` if there wa evid against yinon levi , he would be in isra prison . who is britain to come and say , ' we are smarter than isra intellig ' ? '' the isra polic command respons for investig complaint in the west bank told mr sukkot ' s parliamentari committe thi week that half the complaint file about settler violenc there were fals , and that they origin from `` radic left - wing organis in tel aviv `` . against thi backdrop , sanction on a hand of individu settler have not shift isra polici in the west bank , but they are have a financi impact . yinon ' s isra bank account wa frozen last month . some of those current under us and uk sanction have use crowdfund to financ project for their area - includ one for a synagogu and educ centr at anoth hilltop outpost call mosh ' s farm . it owner , mosh sharvit , wa sanction along with yinon levi last month . but on thursday the us expand sanction to cover sever new target , includ the farm itself - put thi kind of fund at risk . these sanction may be more symbol than substanti , but they signal american displeasur - both to israel ' s leader , and to the part of presid biden ' s democrat base who have been dismay by imag of the war in gaza , in an elect year . the chairman of the local yesha ( settler ) council , shlomo ne ' eman , call it `` a disgust phenomenon `` and said the west bank wa be use as a scapegoat . `` i think more than anyth , what drive the respons of the uk [ and ] the us is the fear of one settler attack that goe ' out of control ' , '' said yehuda shaul , founder of the ofek centr , a think tank which campaign to end israel ' s occup . `` the west bank [ then ] erupt like a volcano . and we have anoth front , as if gaza is not enough , and the road to region war is almost unstopp then . '' two sheep farmer in the occupi west bank - one back by a superpow , the other by the isra state . if the lifestyl here is simpl , the polit are complic . from yinon ' s hilltop farm , you can clearli see the ruin of zanuta perch on the next hill , with the home fare samamreh left month ago . mani of the hous are ravag - roof and furnitur taken by their owner into exil ; wall smash by settler to prevent them return , activist say . the desert villag is slowli be taken over by vast bank of wild mallow . on a post near the entranc , a larg star of david ha been scrawl in blue paint . settler here point to attack by palestinian , and say they are scare . but it ' s palestinian who are leav .