`` they were forc to speak in a whisper , '' say michael kozlov , whose son wa one of four hostag dramat rescu by isra special forc from hama captiv in central gaza on saturday . for the parent of russian isra , andrey , one of what the militari codenam `` diamond `` dure it oper , it wa noth short of `` a miracl `` . speak to the bbc , eugenia and michael kozlov gave an emot account of how they heard the news that their son wa free and detail of hi ordeal over eight month . bodycam footag releas by the isra militari show andrey , 27 , and anoth hostag , hold up their hand fear as they hid behind cushion after their rescuer burst into the room where they were be held . incred , after month of attempt brainwash by their captor , hi mother , eugenia kozlova say the hostag were not clear whether the plan wa `` to kill or to save `` them . the men had all been told that isra had forgotten about those held captiv , that they were perceiv as a problem by the isra author and might well be target to get rid of them , if their presenc wa discov . michael kozlov say hi son and the other hostag were told to keep their voic down becaus , accord to their guard , `` a special reconnaiss aircraft – a drone – wa listen in and could hear what they were say in hebrew `` . '' thi caus such deep psycholog trauma that it forc him to some extent to believ their word , '' mr kozlov add . '' he wa lost until he realis he wa be save . '' andrey – along with the three other rescu from gaza ’ s nuseirat camp , noa argamani , almog meir jan and shlomi ziv – had been abduct from the nova music festiv on the morn of 7 octob . he had been work there as a secur guard have move to israel from russia just 18 month earlier . eugenia kozlova , who mainli live in st petersburg , ha regularli come to israel to join hostag famili ralli and meet politician and armi repres , and wa due to fli back to tel aviv when isra offici telephon her with news about her son . '' i thought it wa bad news and i began to shout : ' no ! ' i threw my phone away and it fell somewher under the tabl , '' she recal . '' i could hear them shout from under the tabl : ' we have good news ! ' '' i crawl under the tabl . ' what are you say ? ' '' veri good news : andrey wa releas . my english is not that good . i ask them to repeat it . '' both were worri about how andrey would appear when they first saw him on a video call but were reliev to find that he appear to be himself . '' he laugh , he joke . just three hour after he wa in gaza he manag to joke , '' hi mother say . '' he wa in prison , he wa a prison , then after some insignificantli small number of hour , he found himself back on isra territori , '' she add . the kozlov do not go into detail of what their son ha said about the circumst of hi rescu . after the three male hostag were rescu from a famili ' s apart in nuseirat ’ s urban refuge camp , the isra militari say there wa a gunfight with the hama guard . later , the lorri be use to evacu the hostag and a fatal wound special forc offic broke down and wa surround by arm men , accord to isra offici . heavi bomb by the isra air forc wa meant to give the rescuer time and cover to escap . gaza health offici say that the event wa one of the deadliest sinc the war start and that more than 270 palestinian were kill . israel ’ s militari say fewer than 100 were kill . it hold hama respons for civilian death as it wa hide hostag in a dens popul place . `` for two month he wa tie up - hand and feet , '' hi mother say , her voic waver . as andrey hate to eat `` like an anim `` , he would tri to wriggl to bring hi hand from behind hi back . '' he took it as a gift from gaza when hi hand were final tie in front , '' hi father add . the hostag ’ captor `` humili and beat them `` , michael kozlov goe on , but worst still wa the cruel taunt . `` they were alway under psycholog pressur . ' your mother ha alreadi gone on vacat to greec . we know it . we saw it . your wife is date someon els , ' '' eugenia recount . across israel there ha been a euphor respons to the dramat rescu oper . '' peopl lean out of their car and shout and greet andrey . now we are watch the news , and i am astound that the releas of the four hostag ha becom a celebr for all of israel , '' say eugenia . israel is still reel from the hama - led attack which kill about 1 , 200 peopl eight month ago . out of over 240 hostag who were seiz and taken to gaza , more than 100 were releas in a week - long ceasefir in novemb . israel say there are now 116 hostag who were abduct that day who remain in gaza – includ about one - third whom it ha conclud are no longer aliv . prior to saturday ’ s rescu onli three isra hostag held in gaza had been releas as a result of the militari ’ s ground assault , and the success of the latest oper gave the nation a boost . for eugenia – who ha come to know mani rel of hostag – there are constant remind of how lucki she is . around tel aviv and close to andrey ' s home in central israel , there are mani poster plaster up of those who are still miss . '' it is veri sad to look at these portrait , '' she say . `` they ’ re everywher . and now i look into their face , and i seem to have a feel of guilt , becaus we understand veri well , we tell each other sever time a day , that thi is a miracl ! '' despit all that their son suffer , the kozlov are inclin to believ hi guard who told him that he wa held in a better situat than mani other isra hostag - kept in tunnel underground and depriv of light . '' we constantli think about those peopl who are still there . we must definit save them , '' michael say emphat . while they have not given up campaign for the hostag , the famili is now put much of their energi into help andrey adjust to life back home after he underw medic check and wa discharg from hospit . after 245 day in captiv , he is still catch up on all the develop that have taken place – includ the huge march demand that the isra govern bring the hostag home . '' he is surpris by so mani thing and then news that he didn ' t know sometim stop him from sleep , '' hi mother say . '' then he read articl , and he say : `` is thi true ? is thi true ? did it happen ? ”