all except the shortest war have time when kill is an unchang , grim routin . there are also moment , like the last few day in the middl east , when event leav belliger and their alli at a crossroad with big decis to make . choic are confront leader in the govern and arm forc in israel and tehran , at hezbollah ' s hq in the southern suburb of beirut and further afield in the gulf , europ and america . the kill of foreign aid worker in gaza might final exhaust the consider patienc of israel ' s alli , led by the unit state . israel and egypt have ban foreign journalist from enter gaza , except on occasion , highli control and brief visit with the isra militari . belliger need to win the media battl in an age of asymmetr warfar where victori or defeat can reli on percept as much as the realiti of battl . journalist are also deni access to a war when the parti fight it have someth to hide . but even without foreign report on the scene , evid is pile up that israel is not , as it claim , respect it oblig under the law of war to respect civilian live , or allow the free movement of aid in a famin creat by israel ' s own action . after the world central kitchen team wa kill in gaza , presid biden use hi strongest languag yet in public statement to condemn israel ' s action . the presid and hi aid have now to decid whether word are enough . so far , they have resist call to put condit on the use of american weapon in gaza , or even to turn off the suppli line . while the weapon still arriv , israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu , who depend on hardlin jewish ultranationalist to stay in offic , might feel he can still afford to defi presid biden . a major test will be the offens israel want to attack hama in rafah , plan the us believ would compound the humanitarian catastroph in gaza . american interest and joe biden ' s polit prospect in an elect year have alreadi been damag by what is seen in mani countri as complic with israel . in anoth chang thi week , mr netanyahu ha come back to work after two day off for hernia surgeri to huge demonstr demand hi resign and earli elect for a new parliament . deep cultur and polit fissur between isra that were put to one side after 7 octob are wide open again and be shout about in the street . the prime minist is in polit troubl , blame by hi oppon for let down israel ' s guard so badli that hama detect a chanc to attack . million of isra who believ they are fight a just war against hama have no confid in mr netanyahu . their charg sheet includ prolong the war to put off the moment when he is held account for hi mistak , fail to bring israel ' s hostag home safe , and alien vital alli start with presid biden . add to that the fact that after a huge onslaught over six month hama is still fight , and it senior leader in gaza , yahya sinwar is still aliv somewher in the strip . anoth new set of calcul about the next stage of the crisi in the middl east aris from the assassin of a senior iranian gener in damascu , wide assum in israel to be the work of it air forc . it wa a coup for intellig servic that miss or ignor the hama attack six month ago . it wa also an escal in the wider war in the region that will have consequ . some of them may happen close to where i ' m write thi , look across the sea of galile toward the golan height , the larg swath of southern syria that israel captur in the 1967 middl east war and later annex . as the crow fli , damascu is less than 50 mile from here . the border with lebanon is close by . at night , especi , there is constant isra air activ , with the roar of jet on patrol , or head off to bomb lebanon or syria . a shadow war ha been fought here in parallel with the war in gaza sinc last octob . it start with hezbollah , the power lebanes militia and polit movement attack israel , in support of hama in gaza . it wa not the onslaught that the hama leadership wa hope for - neither hezbollah or it patron in tehran want an all - out war with israel and , indirectli , it american backer . the american did not want that either and restrain israel ' s instinct to respond in full forc . but hezbollah still tie down thousand of isra troop and forc the evacu of someth like 80 , 000 civilian from the border area . israel ' s respons , limit compar to earlier border war , forc the displac of at least as mani civilian on the lebanes side . sinc the start of thi year it ha been differ . israel ha been set the pace , bomb it enemi deeper insid lebanon and syria . the biggest leap up the ladder of escal came on monday with the assassin by air strike on the iranian diplomat compound in the syrian capit . in interview here in northern israel local offici and resid have express strong support not just for the assassin but for an invas of south lebanon to destroy hezbollah and forc them back from the border . they were not put off by israel ' s experi in the last two decad of the 20th centuri , when it occupi a broad strip of south lebanon to tri to protect northern israel . it even creat it own lebanes militia to help with the fight . the isra pull out in 2000 , under constant militari harass from hezbollah , after prime minist ehud barak , a former head of the armi , decid that occupi south lebanon ( israel call it the `` secur zone `` ) did not make isra ani safer and wast the live of it troop . i walk through the ruin of the avivim wineri , which is right on the border wire . it wa destroy in a hezbollah strike last week . it owner shlomi biton show me through the wreck of hi busi . he is 47 and wa born in avivim , which like the rest of northern israel ha becom a ghost town after the evacu . shlomi fought in lebanon dure hi militari servic , and now believ that the onli way to restor a decent and safe life is for israel to return to lebanon for a decis battl with hezbollah . `` there ' s no other choic , '' he told me next hi burnt - out busi . `` otherwis , the commun won ' t return to live here , mayb just a few crazi guy like me - the children won ' t come back . '' in kiryat shmona , a border town where 25 , 000 isra live , no more than 3 , 000 peopl , mostli soldier and essenti worker , are left . the mayor , avichai stern , show me desert district and wreck build . he believ that israel can remov hezbollah ' s threat to the north with a decis and destruct invas on the line of the gaza war . mayor stern said last year 10 , 000 hezbollah fighter practis take over northern israel . `` it can happen here `` he told me , `` just like gaza . they weren ' t train to direct traffic in beirut . the onli way to stop it is to go into lebanon elimin thi threat as soon as possibl . '' exactli six month ago , in deadli secreci , hama wa put the finish touch to the battl plan it call oper al - aqsa flood . the kill on 7 octob and everyth that ha follow destroy lazi , wish think that it wa possibl to manag the centuri - long conflict between arab and jew for control of the land between the river jordan and the mediterranean sea . hama thrust the conflict back to the top of the world ' s agenda when it kill around 1 , 200 peopl , mostli isra civilian , and took more than 250 isra and foreign citizen into gaza as hostag . mani of the 134 isra still there are thought to be dead . it wa israel ' s worst singl day sinc it won it independ war in 1948 . the `` mighti vengeanc `` that mr netanyahu promis ha so far kill more than 32 , 000 palestinian , a major of whom were civilian . israel ' s american - suppli firepow ha flatten most of gaza . the war ha spread across the middl east . it might now be enter a new phase . what we know about isra strike on aid convoywho were the seven aid worker kill in gaza ? the borderland between israel and lebanon are decept beauti in the first few week of spring . wild flower and pinecon , not shrapnel , were underfoot as i walk along a stretch of the border with isra militari offic . ani sens of peac wa , of cours , an illus on one of the most danger border in the middl east . iran and hezbollah are make decis about how to respond to the assassin in the damascu and the way israel is increas the militari pressur in lebanon . the two alli will want to calibr their respons to avoid a wider , devast war that neither want . israel doe not want that war either . but the audaci assassin at the iranian diplomat compound in damascu could be a sign that israel believ iran and the network it call it axi of resist might blink first . if so , it is a riski strategi . iran will want to restor it abil to deter israel , which is clearli not work . it will tri to respond in a way that will catch israel by surpris . the empti overgrown border commun are not like to be iran ' s first choic for retali . they could tri an isra target in anoth countri , or cyber - attack rather than missil . or intensifi their nuclear programm . an american envoy , amo hochstein , is tri to find a way to reviv the un secur council resolut that end the last big war between hezbollah and israel in 2006 . neither side ha respect it , but it provid a framework for negoti . at thi crossroad , neither israel , iran nor hezbollah want an all - out war that would have terribl consequ for all of them . but no side seem readi to stop the slide toward it .