a babi rescu from her die mother ' s womb after an isra air strike in southern gaza ha die , the bbc ha learn . babi sabreen al - sakani wa deliv by caesarean section in a rafah hospit shortli after midnight on sunday . amid chaotic scene doctor resuscit the babi , use a hand pump to push air into her lung . howev she die on thursday and ha been buri next to her mother after whom she wa name . babi sabreen wa among 16 children kill in two air strike in rafah last weekend . all were kill in a bombard target the hous complex where they live . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said they were target hama fighter and infrastructur . sabreen ' s mother , also call sabreen , wa seven - and - a - half month pregnant when the isra air strike on the al - sakani famili home took place just befor midnight on saturday as she , her husband shukri and their three - year - old daughter malak were asleep . she suffer extens injuri and her husband and malak were kill , but the babi wa still aliv in her mother ' s womb when rescu worker reach the site . they rush sabreen to hospit , where doctor perform an emerg caesarean section to deliv the child . it appear that babi sabreen had stabilis and she wa subsequ place in an incub . at the time doctor describ her condit as critic . she weigh just 1 . 4kg ( 3 . 1 lb ) when she wa born and wa in sever respiratori distress , which doctor said wa becaus she had been born prematur . `` thi child should have been in the mother ' s womb at thi time , but she wa depriv of thi right , '' dr moham salama , head of the emerg neo - natal unit at emirati hospit in rafah , said after she wa born . babi sabreen ' s matern grandmoth , mirvat al - sakani , told the bbc the famili had plan to adopt the child . the hama - run health ministri in gaza say that of the more than 34 , 000 peopl kill in gaza sinc the war began on 7 octob , at least two - third are women and children . israel launch it offens after about 1 , 200 isra and foreign - mostli civilian - were kill and 253 other were taken back to gaza as hostag , accord to isra talli . there are now an estim 1 . 4 million peopl crowd into rafah have been told by the idf to move south to safeti earlier in the war . howev israel say it is plan a ground offens into rafah , with isra pm benjamin netanyahu insist it is necessari to defeat hama and search for hostag . satellit imag show two new tent encamp in southern gaza with isra media report say prepar to evacu civilian from rafah were under way . the us ha appeal to israel to adopt a target approach rather than launch a full - scale invas of rafah , which might precipit an even greater humanitarian crisi .