protest and counter - protest gather in north london over the screen of a documentari about the hama attack on 7 octob . pro - israel and pro - palestinian support protest outsid the phoenix cinema in east finchley on thursday over the screen of supernova : the music festiv massacr , which focus on the victim and survivor of the hama attack on the nova festiv . pro - palestin group call for the screen to be cancel at the protest , while crowd wave isra flag stage a counter protest . the cinema , which wa defac with red graffiti in the lead up to the screen , said it did not `` take side `` and as an independ venu should `` uphold freedom of express `` . the met polic said it wa investig the vandal as a possibl `` hate crime `` . no arrest had yet been made . on 7 octob , more than 360 young partygo were kill by hama attack , who storm the festiv site near the israel - gaza perimet fenc . anoth 40 were taken hostag . the film wa shown as part of the isra film festiv seret , which wa held in london from 16 to 23 may . a spokesperson for the met polic said that section 14 condit were put in place dure the protest . '' demonstr could continu to protest , but had to move into design area . thi wa to keep all those involv safe , '' the forc said . '' pro - palestinian protest left the area and offic remain on scene to help minimis congest and keep road open . ’ ’ imag share of the cinema on social media appear to show graffiti spray on it front door which said `` say no to artwash `` . the graffiti ha sinc been remov . more than £ 10 , 000 ha been rais for the cinema to cover the cost of clean and ani repair . a spokesperson for phoenix cinema said : `` we believ that an independ cinema should uphold freedom of express and want to show difficult content . '' for the sake of clariti , we would be equal support of a difficult palestinian film becaus , as a chariti , we do not take side . '' while some of our audienc may not agre with thi screen , we consid other will be veri support and would have been dismay if we had refus to host [ intern isra film festiv ] seret thi year . '' listen to the best of bbc radio london on sound and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your stori idea to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk