seven palestinian , includ a doctor , have been kill by isra forc dure an oper in jenin in the north of the occupi west bank , the palestinian health ministri ha said . dr oussaid jabareen , a 50 - year - old surgeon at jenin govern hospit , wa shot dead on hi way to work , accord to the ministri . palestinian media also said a teenag boy wa kill while ride a bicycl . the isra militari said it troop exchang fire with palestinian gunmen dure a counter - terror oper in jenin and that it wa review alleg that “ uninvolv individu ” were hit . there ha been a surg in violenc in the west bank sinc the start of the war in the gaza strip , trigger by hama ' s deadli attack on southern israel on 7 octob . the un say at least 480 palestinian - member of arm group , attack and civilian - have been kill in conflict - relat incid in the west bank , includ east jerusalem . ten isra , includ six secur forc personnel , have also been kill in the west bank . the west bank - base palestinian health ministri said seven peopl had been kill and nine wound , two of them serious , by isra fire dure tuesday morn ’ s oper in jenin . the onli casualti it name wa dr jabareen , whom it said isra forc had shot as he travel to work at jenin govern hospit , where he wa a surgeon . the ministri accus isra forc of deliber kill the doctor . offici palestinian news agenc wafa report that a schoolboy in the ninth grade , mahmoud hamadna , wa kill as he cycl through jenin . it post a photograph on x , formerli twitter , purportedli show the teenag ’ s bodi lie on the ground in a side - street besid what look like a bicycl . wafa also said schoolteach allam jaradat wa kill “ while on duti ” at walid abu muwai basic school and post a photo that it said show a pool of blood on the back seat of hi car . photograph from jaradat ’ s funer show mourner carri a bodi wrap in a hama flag . video footag meanwhil show peopl help a palestinian photojournalist , amr mansara , who told afp news agenc that he had been `` hit in the back of my leg by a stray bullet fire by isra forc `` . later , an afp correspond report see at least five gunmen exchang fire with isra troop in downtown jenin , and that isra armour bulldoz had dug up the surfac of the road between the govern hospit and jenin ’ s refuge camp . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said in a statement that secur forc began an oper in jenin on tuesday morn in respons to intellig about activ by hama and palestinian islam jihad gunmen . “ as part of the counterterror activ and activ against terrorist infrastructur , extens exchang of fire are under way between the secur forc and the arm terrorist . hit to terrorist were identifi . no idf injuri were report . “ dure the exchang of fire in the area , uninvolv individu were reportedli hit . the idf is review the alleg , ” it ad . palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) - which , like hama , is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the uk and other countri - said it wa battl isra forc in jenin and had target some with an explos devic . hama condemn what it call `` a new massacr in jenin `` . a spokesman for palestinian author presid mahmoud abba , a rival of hama who is base in the west bank , accus isra forc of “ violat sanctiti , kill innoc peopl and doctor and destroy the infrastructur of palestinian hospit , citi , villag and camp in full view of the world ” . on friday night , the idf said it had carri out a rare air strike in west bank and kill a key figur in one of jenin ’ s arm group . the idf said islam khamayseh wa a “ senior terrorist oper ” who had been involv in a seri of attack , includ a 2023 drive - by shoot that kill an isra man near the settlement of hermesh . pij said khamayseh wa one of it member and that hi kill would “ not go unpunish ” .