the director of the border book festiv have announc it will end it sponsorship deal with bailli gifford after thi year ' s event . it come after edinburgh intern book festiv end it deal with the invest compani follow pressur from climat chang protest . the border book festiv said it had taken the decis with `` great regret `` after eight year work togeth . the event - stage in melros - run from 13 to 16 june thi year . climat chang protest have criticis other book festiv for their link to the compani which they claim ha link to fossil fuel firm and israel . the edinburgh book festiv and the hay festiv in wale have recent end sponsorship deal with the compani . bailli gifford ha defend it ethic record , say it is not a signific fossil fuel investor and describ claim that it had signific amount of money in the occupi palestinian territori as `` offens mislead `` . the border book festiv said it had made it decis follow protest around the sponsorship deal at it own and other festiv . it said : `` we took thi decis with great regret becaus we have enjoy eight happi and product year work togeth to make our festiv better , more access and in particular more attract to children and famili . '' without the support of bailli gifford we would not have been abl to mount such a vibrant and vari children ’ s festiv - where adult go free - and do all that we do with school in the border . '' bailli gifford ’ s support ha enabl us to put free book into the hand of thousand of children , and that aspect of their support will be sore miss . '' it thank the compani for it `` solid and passion support `` not onli for it festiv but for other around the countri . andr ordorica , of fossil free book , welcom the announc and defend the group ' s decis to target book festiv . he said the group involv about 100 book worker from a rang of section of the industri . '' the aim ha alway been - and will continu to be - to call upon bailli gifford to divest , '' he said . '' we appreci them listen to writer and book worker , '' he said . '' the aim ha never been to target festiv - it is about use these festiv ' veri uniqu relationship with thi investor . '' he said he appreci that their tactic might not be welcom but said there wa a long histori of such protest be use to draw attent to campaign . he said book festiv did not have to reli on corpor sponsorship and hope it could lead to the pursuit of better public fund . the wigtown book festiv , which will be held in neighbour dumfri and galloway later in the year , also receiv support from bailli gifford . director adrian turpin said the festiv wa in “ dialogu ” with the compani over their relationship . howev , he said he wa confid that sponsorship the festiv receiv conform to `` transpar ethic standard `` . he said : `` it is not our role to make a case for them , but we encourag everyon to look at the fact and the misrepresent that have been made , both regard their climat - relat and israel - relat invest . '' they have been exemplari support . '' he ad that the situat wa a `` disast `` for literatur organis across scotland . dozen of scotland ’ s top writer includ val mcdermid , liz lochead , jacki kay , chri brookmyr , andrew o ’ hagan and alexand mccall smith last week criticis the impact of protest over the sponsorship on the edinburgh intern book festiv . in an open letter to the scotsman newspap they said as citizen they felt it wa right to campaign for fossil fuel divest and a ceasefir in gaza , but said that tactic that risk the closur of book festiv were `` ill - thought out `` . the edinburgh intern book festiv ha meanwhil launch it programm for thi year , featur author like margaret atwood , salman rushdi , lorrain kelli and richard osmond . director jenni niven said she believ the festiv could be a forum to discuss the `` realli seriou thing go on in societi `` . '' we have isra and palestinian author on stage togeth , we have got conflict resolut programm , we have got peopl look at green tech and how to financ the green economi , '' she said . '' come and educ yourselv and share your view and think about whi doe thi matter to you and get involv in the convers . '' everybodi ' s voic need to be heard in that . ''