a mother will search anywher for her miss child . and while she ha the strength , she will never stop . whether he is aliv or dead . it doesn ' t matter . for four day kareema elra ha move through the nois , dust and overpow stench of the mass grave at nasser hospit . she is the mother of 21 - year - old ahm , who wa kill on 25 januari in the citi of khan youni , in south central gaza . hi bodi ha been miss sinc then . on tuesday , kareema found her boy . `` i have been come here all the time until now , '' she said , `` until i found the bodi of my son , my son ahm , the cherish littl boy , hi mother ' s love . he lost hi father when he wa 12 year old , and i rais him . '' nearbi , other famili walk along the perimet of the grave . it is a scene depressingli familiar from war zone around the world . the bulldoz claw at the earth to reach the dead . an arm , stiff , extend from beneath the soil . the gravedigg mark out the individu space where exhum corps will be buri . and the famili of the lost , hope to find their love one among the dead . but the univers of the imageri doe not necessarili suggest the same explan . each mass grave - whether in the balkan , central africa , the middl east , or elsewher - is the consequ of it own local condit . in a war that ha reportedli claim the live of more than 34 , 000 peopl in a constrict land space , buri the dead ha becom a complex and often danger task . some cemeteri are full . other are imposs to reach becaus of fight . becaus of these pressur bodi have been buri in the ground of hospit where isra forc said they fought hama . in some war that i have report on it wa possibl to tell reason quickli what had happen to the victim . thi is becaus forens investig were on the scene rel soon afterward and journalist were abl to access the area . in the current condit in gaza - with israel and egypt refus to admit intern journalist , and fight creat extrem danger condit for ani potenti team of forens investig - it is an immens challeng to specif determin how and when each of those be exhum from the grave at nasser hospit and also at al - shifa hospit , to the north in gaza citi , met their death . were at least some execut by isra forc , as hama and local rescu worker claim ? or are the hundr of dead in mass grave all the victim of air strike and fight in the area insid and around the medic complex , as well as other victim of diseas and malnutrit caus by the war ? did the isra move bodi from one grave to a new grave ? by shayan sardarizadeh and richard irvin - brown , bbc verifi bbc verifi ha verifi video post onlin on 22 , 25 and 28 januari , which show palestinian buri bodi at two locat in the courtyard of nasser hospit . the footag wa geoloc by use the line of doubl palm tree and match visibl build in the middl - distanc . the temporari burial took place as medic staff and displac civilian report intens fight in the area and after the hospit wa said to have been surround by isra ground forc . we have no way of confirm precis how mani bodi were buri befor the isra raid began on 15 februari . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri said on 27 januari that the bodi of 150 peopl had been buri in the hospit ' s courtyard , but it is nearli imposs to verifi that figur . we can confirm that footag publish in recent day , follow the withdraw of isra troop from khan youni , show the same burial site . the same line of tree and surround build can be seen clearli . gaza ' s civil defenc forc say more than 330 bodi have been recov , but there are question that we can not answer about when and how those peopl die . nasser hospit offici might have kept record about the bodi that were buri befor the isra raid , but we do not know that . the isra militari ha confirm that it did exhum and examin bodi in the courtyard to see if ani were those of hostag seiz by hama , and that they were subsequ `` return to their place `` . but sky news ha verifi video and satellit imageri which show isra bulldoz drove over the courtyard dure their raid , caus visibl damag to the site . the director of the unit nation high commission for human right offic for the palestinian territori , ajith sunghay , told me there had to be an independ forens investig of the grave . on tuesday , anoth un offici said that some bodi had been found with their hand tie . thi follow a statement by an offici of the palestinian civil defenc , a group which carri out rescu and recoveri oper , that corps had been found handcuf , that other had been seen shot in the head , and some wear detaine uniform . reem zeidan spent two week search for the bodi of her son nabil , which wa found on wednesday afternoon . reem said she saw bodi that had sign of tortur , with their hand cuf . `` they were execut . some had their hand and leg cuf togeth and were execut . till when will thi continu ? '' i ask mr sunghay if he had seen solid evid of bodi with hand tie . `` we still don ' t have evid , we have inform , '' he repli . `` and that inform need to be corrobor from differ sourc . and that ' s exactli whi we do need an independ intern investig . '' `` what we can not allow , in thi current situat where we have seen in gaza numer grave human right violat , mani of them potenti war crime , and where we have rais alarm of potenti atroc crime , that thi becom anoth blip . the intens of violat ha been massiv . '' mr sunghay said he had team readi to deploy in gaza if they were given permiss and safe passag by israel . the isra side ha dismiss as a libel the claim that it buri bodi at the hospit . in a statement , the israel defens forc said : `` the claim that the idf buri palestinian bodi is baseless and unfound . '' the idf ad that bodi were exhum and check to see if ani were those of hostag seiz by hama and taken to gaza dure the 7 octob attack on israel . the statement said : `` the examin wa conduct in a care manner and exclus in place where intellig indic the possibl presenc of hostag . the examin wa carri out respect while maintain the digniti of the deceas . '' the work of tri to identifi and give a decent burial to the dead will continu for day to come . somaya al - shourbagi retriev her husband osama ' s bodi at nasser hospit and manag to bring him to a cemeteri to be laid to rest next to the rest of their famili . she knelt by the freshli dug grave with the coupl ' s daughter , hind . `` my young daughter ask me to visit the grave of her father , '' somaya said , `` and i would tell her that as soon as we buri him , we will visit him . thank god . the situat is tough , but we might find some relief after buri him . '' littl hind , who is around five year of age , rememb her father through the clear , simpl eye of a child : `` he love me , and use to buy thing for me , and he use to take me out . '' with addit report by alic doyard , haneen abdeen , nik millard and shereen youssef