isra protest block aid truck destin for gaza on monday , throw food packag onto the road and rip bag of grain open in the occupi west bank . the lorri , which were set upon at the tarqumiya checkpoint west of hebron , came from jordan and were head to the gaza strip , where peopl are in desper need of humanitarian aid . the white hous ha condemn the attack , describ the `` loot `` of aid convoy as `` a total outrag `` . the group reportedli behind the protest said they were demonstr against the continu detent of isra hostag in gaza . unverifi footag share on social media show protest toppl box from lorri onto the ground , and stomp on them onc they had fallen . some video appear to show vehicl be set on fire later in the even . the bbc ha not been abl to independ verifi these . accord to report in isra media , the tzav 9 activist group were respons for organis the protest . isra media report describ it as a right - wing group which is seek to halt humanitarian aid transfer into gaza while isra hostag are held there . one protest told afp news agenc she wa at the checkpoint on monday becaus she heard aid truck were on `` their way to the hand of the hama , who are tri to kill other soldier and other isra citizen `` . hana giat , 33 , said `` no food should go into gaza `` until isra hostag are return `` healthi and aliv `` . in a statement cite by the jerusalem post , tzav 9 reject some of the protest ' action , say that `` act were commit today that are not in line with the valu of our movement `` . it ad , howev , that `` block the truck is an effect and practic step in which we shout that ' no aid pass until the last of the hostag return ' '' . four protest , includ a minor , were arrest at the demonstr , accord to a statement from their lawyer . us nation secur advis jake sullivan said the protest ' behaviour wa `` complet and utterli unaccept `` and the white hous wa rais it concern with `` the highest level of the isra govern `` . the humanitarian situat in gaza - the intend destin of the aid truck - is a matter of grave concern among mani in the intern commun . the un ' s world food programm ha warn that palestinian in northern gaza are experienc a `` full - blown famin `` . in the south , where most palestinian have sought refug , the humanitarian situat ha deterior after israel launch an oper in eastern rafah , close the entri point for aid via egypt . aid agenc say get suppli through anoth southern cross , kerem shalom , is also extrem difficult due to the secur situat there . israel ha long maintain that it is commit to facilit deliveri of humanitarian aid into and within gaza and ha accus hama of steal the aid design for civilian . the incid came on the same day a un staff member wa kill and anoth injur as they travel to a hospit in gaza . un say staff member kill in gazagaza war weigh heavili as israel mark memori daymonday ' s incid coincid with israel ' s memori day , as the countri stop to pay it respect to those who have lost their live in war and terror . accord to israel ' s defenc ministri , the name of 826 peopl from the secur forc were ad to the list of the countri ' s fallen thi year , alongsid 834 victim of terrorist attack . almost all of them were from the 7 octob hama attack and the war that follow in gaza . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel last year , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 35 , 090 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . while the isra offens ha been focus on the gaza strip , tension between isra settler and palestinian in the west bank have heighten sinc the start of the war . around 700 , 000 isra live in 160 settlement alongsid 2 . 7 million palestinian in the occupi west bank and east jerusalem , accord to the settlement watchdog peac now . the intern commun regard the settlement as illeg , although israel disput thi .