a council meet on tynesid wa stall for the second time in six week after pro - palestin protest disrupt proceed . councillor were usher from newcastl civic centr ' s meet chamber follow chant from the public galleri . demonstr unfurl a palestinian flag and shout `` ceasefir now `` and `` shame on you `` befor be remov by polic . council leader nick kemp said he understood the `` anger `` express and that he share the protest ' call for peac in gaza and israel . the protestor carri out their latest demonstr on wednesday , the local democraci report servic said . dozen of peopl gather at the rear of the build ahead of the local author ' s annual budget - set meet . a small number were allow into the public galleri to observ the meet befor they began disrupt proceed after about 30 minut . the chamber wa empti for a few minut while the demonstr were order to leav by polic . the meet then resum . in decemb , the labour - run council wa present with a petit sign by more than 4 , 000 peopl call on the author to `` speak out in support of an immedi ceasefir in gaza and the cessat of isra air and ground assault on gaza `` . mr kemp said the labour group had alreadi given support to five separ request within the petit , includ call for an end to israel ' s sieg and denounc antisemit and islamophobia . howev , the council stop short of call for a ceasefir . '' we understand the anger of some member of our commun in relat to the conflict in gaza and israel , '' mr kemp explain . '' i share their call for peac in the region and an end to the loss of innoc live . '' the council ha alway condemn hama ’ s appal attack and kill of civilian in israel , and the collect punish and kill of palestinian in gaza by the isra govern . '' he call on the newcastl council of faith and commun group to ensur newcastl remain a citi of sanctuari which welcom refuge and other peopl seek safeti . in a recent statement , israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu said : `` the militari campaign is design to destroy hama , return all of our hostag and ensur that gaza never again constitut a threat to israel . '' follow bbc newcastl on x ( formerli twitter ) , facebook and instagram . send your stori idea to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .