the us state depart ha found five unit of the isra militari respons for gross violat of human right in individu incid , but say they will continu to receiv us militari back . all the incid involv took place outsid of gaza befor the current war . israel took correct action in four unit , give `` addit inform `` on the fifth , the depart say . thi mean all the unit remain elig for us militari assist . washington is israel ' s major militari backer , suppli it with $ 3 . 8bn ( £ 3bn ) worth of weapon and defenc system per year . the announc is the first determin of it kind for ani isra unit by the us govern . state depart spokesman vedant patel said five secur forc unit commit gross violat of human right . `` four of these unit have effect remedi these violat , which is what we expect partner to do , '' he said . `` for a remain unit , we continu to be in consult and engag with the govern of israel ; they have submit addit inform as it pertain to that unit , '' he ad . the depart deni claim it back down under polit pressur by continu militari assist to the unit despit be unabl to say whether or not there had been ani account in the case . `` we are engag with them in a process , and we will make an ultim decis when it come to that unit when that process is complet , '' said mr patel . all the incid are believ to have taken place in the occupi west bank and jerusalem in recent year . under america ' s `` leahi law `` , sponsor in 1997 by then - senat patrick leahi , a find that a foreign militari unit commit gross violat of human right mean it can be cut from receiv us militari assist . the us govern say it consid tortur , extrajudici kill , enforc disappear and rape as such type of violat when implement the leahi law . even when there is such a find , there is an except to cut militari assist if the state depart is satisfi the case have been dealt with and justic pursu by the govern involv . it say israel did do thi - so - call remedi - in four of the five unit . howev , the depart declin to give ani detail of the incid , the remedi , the unit involv or evid to support whether the remedi wa effect . the us wa reportedli on the brink of announc it would cut militari aid to the fifth unit , but say new inform from israel mean it will make a decis later . the unit involv is wide report to be the netzah yehuda battalion , a special men - onli unit set up in 1999 where ultra - orthodox jew serv . israel investig the battalion over the death of 80 - year - old palestinian - american omar assad who die after be bound and gag by soldier dure a west bank villag search in 2022 . at the time the us call for a `` thorough crimin investig and full account `` . the israel defens forc ( idf ) later said they regret mr assad ' s death , and a command would be `` reprimand `` and two soldier bar from senior posit for two year - but would not be prosecut . ask about report an idf unit would be the first ever to face the us govern design under the leahi law , secretari of state antoni blinken said on 19 april : `` i made determin . you can expect to see them in the day ahead . '' isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu vow to reject ani sanction on the countri ' s militari , say he would `` fight it with all my strength `` , while defenc minist yoav gallant and war cabinet minist benni gantz spoke on the phone to mr blinken . press by the bbc on monday over whether the state depart had delay or soften it posit on withdraw militari assist to the fifth unit , mr patel said offici would make a decis when their consult with the isra govern were complet .