thi wa the outcom israel sought to avoid : a demand to halt a militari oper the govern regard as essenti for the defeat of hama and the return of hostag . but there is no immedi indic that israel will chang cours as a result of friday ' s rule by the intern court of justic ( icj ) . it tank are push closer to the centr of rafah and just as the decis wa be read out , a seri of air strike sent a huge black cloud billow over rafah . some of prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s hardlin colleag have react with rage , accus the court of antisemit and side with hama . the govern ’ s former spokesman , eylon levi , note that the presid judg , nawaf salam , wa lebanes and “ couldn ’ t return home safe if he rule the ‘ wrong way ’ . ” but for mr netanyahu ’ s critic , thi is one more sign of israel ’ s grow intern isol . consid the latest sign , even befor today : the prospect of arrest warrant for mr netanyahu and hi defenc minist from the intern crimin courteuropean countri prepar to recognis the state of palestinemount evid that the biden administr is lose patienc with israel ’ s refus to engag in a meaning plan for the futur israel will be dismay that it argument didn ’ t appear to influenc the icj judg . it say it ’ s gone to great length to ensur that civilian are out of harm ’ s way befor send troop into rafah . and it say it ’ s make sure that food and other vital suppli reach gaza . there are element of truth to both of these argument . more than 800 , 000 civilian have move away from rafah . and while it ’ s true that veri littl aid ha enter the southern gaza strip sinc the rafah offens began almost three week ago , israel ha allow hundr of truck of commerci good to enter , mean that in part of the territori , food is avail ( if not necessarili afford ) . despit repeat warn of famin , especi in the north , mass starvat ha yet to manifest itself . if anyth , the situat in the north may have improv somewhat , thank to the open of addit cross point . but the court seem unimpress . a fresh wave of mass displac , it argu , repres a signific new threat to the live and wellb of the palestinian popul , which demand fresh action . south africa argu that rafah repres “ the last line of defenc ” for the gaza strip . for rafah to suffer the same fate as the territori other citi , it said , could lead to further irrepar damag to the entir palestinian popul . thi is what the court is tri to stop . israel say that is not the purpos of it oper in the south and look set to press on .