israel ' s militari say it ha establish the death of four more peopl abduct by hama on 7 octob . it say the four were kill while togeth dure an isra oper in khan youni in southern gaza , ad that their bodi were still be held by the milit . the men were name as british - isra nadav popplewel , 51 , chaim peri , 79 , yoram metzger , 80 , and amiram cooper , 85 . idf spokesman rear adm daniel hagari said intellig gather in recent week had led to the assess . '' we assess that the four of them were kill while togeth in the area of khan youni dure our oper there against hama , '' he said , without give further detail . last month , hama claim that nadav popplewel had die in an isra strike in april . the uk foreign offic said it wa investig , but there wa no confirm of hi death until now . hama releas a video show the other three men in decemb . stori of the peopl taken from israelgaza ceasefir plan turn into deadli game of survivalal four hostag were kidnap from kibbutz near the gaza strip on 7 octob . in a statement via the hostag and miss famili forum , rel said news of the men ' s death should `` lead everi leader to profound soul - search `` . the statement ad : `` chaim , yoram , amiram , and nadav were kidnap aliv , some of them were with other hostag who return in the previou deal - and they should have return aliv to their countri and their famili . '' uk foreign secretari david cameron said in a post on x that he wa `` greatli sadden `` to hear about nadav popplewel ' s death . `` my thought are with hi love one at thi terribl time for them , '' he ad . nadav popplewel wa kidnap at hi home along with hi mother , who wa eventu releas . hi brother roy wa kill in the attack . hama kill about 1 , 200 peopl and took 251 other hostag dure it attack on southern israel , accord to isra author . the group releas 105 civilian dure a week - long truce in novemb . about 120 hostag remain unaccount for . isra offici have said mani are presum dead . israel launch a militari campaign to destroy hama in respons to the cross - border attack . at least 36 , 470 peopl have been kill in gaza in almost eight month of fight , accord to the hama - run health ministri .