tehran is tens , two day after iran ' s unpreced direct attack on israel . worri about war and it impact on iran ' s alreadi flail economi , a signific proport of iranian oppos what they see as the reckless adventur of the countri ' s elit islam revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) , which fire more than 300 drone and missil on saturday night . in a letter sent to bbc persian , a long list of iranian activist both insid the countri and abroad criticis iran ' s and israel ' s action and say `` no to warmong ! '' mani iranian also see the iran - israel confront now emerg from the shadow as be orchestr by the iranian govern rather than reflect of the will of the iranian peopl . thi percept is underscor by a heavi polic presenc on the street of tehran - ostens about enforc strict islam dress code requir women to cover their hair but which mani suspect is mainli about crush ani possibl protest . some decis - maker fear that if iranian secur forc and the irgc ' s command centr are hit in a war with israel and the us , thi could reignit nationwid protest that erupt in 2022 after the death of a young woman in polic custodi . some graffiti ha appear on wall in iranian citi - `` israel , strike the suprem leader ' s [ ayatollah ali khamenei ' s ] hous , '' read one . `` israel hit them , they lack the courag to retali , '' read anoth . the govern ha it own billboard - `` tel aviv is our battleground , not tehran , '' read one . immedi after the irgc attack , support of the islam republ celebr and a banner warn isra that `` the next slap will be fiercer `` wa hung from a build in tehran . `` i believ it wa the right decis to attack israel to prevent further kill of iranian command in syria and elsewher , '' one woman said in a voic messag sent to bbc persian . but anoth said : `` iranian themselv are in a state of war with the current regim . we harbour no animos toward ani nation , includ israel . '' meanwhil a woman said she wa concern about a wider war . such fear appear to prompt peopl to scrambl to stock up on essenti like food and fuel , with pictur show queue form outsid petrol station in tehran and supermarket inund with shopper . with the offici inflat rate stand at just over 40 % and ten of million of peopl struggl with the cost of live , a militari confront with israel wa the last thing most iranian want . the valu of the iranian rial , alreadi at a histor low , declin further against the us dollar follow israel ' s attack on the iranian consul in syria . mani worri that , sooner or later , the militari escal will hike the price of mani good , from mobil phone to home applianc and mani foodstuff . the iranian govern set the price of some essenti item such as bread and fuel , and let mani item be import on a preferenti exchang rate ( in other word cheap foreign currenc ) . but still the price of mani good follow the open market exchang rate . iran ' s economi ha been struggl sinc the us left an intern deal to limit iran ' s nuclear activ in 2018 and re - impos crippl sanction , particularli curb iran ' s abil to export crude oil . on tuesday , iranian newspap were focus on intern pressur on israel to show restraint but also attempt to allay ani econom concern . iran ' s press - which reflect a rang of polit viewpoint , albeit within unwritten rule - ha been larg support of the irgc action . keyhan insist that there wa `` econom calm by show iran ' s power `` . hardlin vatan - e emrouz said sunday night ' s emerg un secur council meet call by israel wa a `` night of isol `` for israel , while reformist newspap arman - e emrouz note a `` global wave to end tension in the middl east `` . onlin , the islam republ ' s support have been post under the persian - languag hashtag # punishing_the_aggressor and # we_made_them_regret . howev critic post under the english hashtag # irgcterrorist have swept persian - languag x , urg western countri to design the irgc a terrorist organis and pay tribut to protest that they say the irgc and other secur forc kill dure the 2022 nationwid protest . popular former footbal ali karimi , base outsid iran , meanwhil post a photo of intertwin hand overlaid with the isra flag and a previou version of the iranian flag that wa in use befor the 1979 islam revolut . `` we are iran , not the islam republ , '' he said .