isra war cabinet minist benni gantz ha threaten to resign unless prime minist benjamin netanyahu set out a post - war plan for the gaza strip . mr gantz set an 8 june deadlin for a plan to achiev six `` strateg goal `` , includ the end of hama rule in gaza and the establish of a multin civilian administr for the territori . `` if you put the nation over person , you will find in us partner in the struggl , '' he said . `` but if you choos the path of fanat and lead the entir nation to the abyss , we will be forc to quit the govern . '' mr netanyahu dismiss the comment as `` wash - up word `` that would mean `` defeat for israel `` . the grow rift come as fight rage at both end of the gaza strip , with isra forc oper in the southern citi of rafah and the northern town of jabalia , one of gaza ’ s histor refuge camp and an area the isra militari previous said it had clear of hama fighter . mr gantz wa speak just day after anoth war cabinet member , defenc minist yoav gallant , urg mr netanyahu to state publicli that israel had no plan to take over civilian and militari rule in gaza . mr gallant said he had rais the issu repeatedli for month but had receiv no respons . he and mr gantz say that maintain militari control in gaza would increas israel ' s secur risk , while other , includ far - right member of mr netanyahu ' s rule coalit in the govern , believ continu control is necessari in order to defeat hama . in a televis address on saturday , mr gantz told mr netanyahu that the `` peopl of israel are watch you `` . '' you must choos between zionism and cynic , between uniti and faction , between respons and lawless , between victori and disast , '' he said . also among the six strateg goal he set out were the return of all isra and foreign hostag still held by hama in gaza and the return of displac palestinian civilian to northern gaza by 1 septemb . he also said israel should continu to seek the normalis of relat with saudi arabia as part of a `` comprehens process to creat an allianc with the free world and the west against iran and it alli `` . respond to the speech , mr netanyahu said that to meet mr gantz ' s demand would lead to `` the end of the war and a defeat for israel , the abandon of most of the hostag , leav hama intact and the establish of a palestinian state `` . israel ' s war cabinet wa establish after hama attack isra commun near gaza on 7 octob , kill around 1 , 200 peopl and take hostag . israel ' s militari campaign against hama in gaza ha kill 35 , 386 peopl , the hama - run health ministri say . the chief of staff of the countri ’ s armi , herzi halevi , ha also privat press on mr netanyahu the need for a “ day after ” strategi , accord to report in isra media . the return of the isra militari to part of northern gaza , like jabalia , that were previous declar clear of hama ha rais doubt about the govern ’ s strategi for elimin the group . mr halevi is said to have argu that , in the absenc of a diplomat process to establish a govern bodi other than hama , the militari will be forc to launch repeat campaign to keep the group at bay . mr gantz propos an american , european , arab , and palestinian administr that could manag civilian affair in gaza while the foundat are laid for a futur altern govern . he ad that israel could maintain a degre of `` secur control `` in the meantim . in jabalia the isra defens forc ( idf ) said they fought battl with palestinian arm group . palestinian medic said one of the isra strike had kill 15 peopl . hama said israel ' s `` brutal raid `` on jabalia had kill dozen of civilian and wound hundr more . late on saturday israel also issu new evacu order for part of northern gaza , say arm group had fire rocket toward it territori . last week , israel began oper in the southern citi of rafah - to which civilian from elsewher in gaza had previous been told to evacu - say it need to enter the citi in order to target hama ' s last remain stronghold . on saturday , it launch air strike and raid on target in the east of the citi . philipp lazzarini , the head of unit nation relief and work agenc ( unrwa ) , said some 800 , 000 palestinian had now left rafah , seek shelter in the shatter citi of khan youni or along the coast . '' sinc the war in gaza began , palestinian have been forc to flee multipl time in search of safeti that they have never found , '' he said . '' when peopl move they are expos , without safe passag or protect . everi time , they are forc to leav behind the few belong they have : mattress , tent , cook utensil and basic suppli that they can not carri or pay to transport . '' the claim that peopl in gaza can move to ' safe ' or ' humanitarian ' zone is fals . each time , it put the live of civilian at seriou risk . '' meanwhil , us presid joe biden ' s nation secur advis jake sullivan is due in israel on sunday for talk with mr netanyahu and is expect to repeat the biden administr ' s opposit to ani full - scale isra assault on rafah in the absenc of plan to protect civilian . mr sullivan ha been hold talk with saudi crown princ moham bin salman . saudi state media said they discuss way to boost aid suppli to gaza and how to achiev palestinian statehood .