the white hous ha condemn `` blatantli antisemit `` statement dure ongo student protest against the war in gaza . as protest at columbia univers enter a fifth day , deputi press secretari andrew bate said student had the right to peac protest . but he denounc `` call for violenc and physic intimid target jewish student `` . more than 100 student were arrest at the new york univers thi week . the arrest came after polic clear a protest encamp at the elit institut . colleg campus across the us have been rock by demonstr for month . the white hous statement on sunday came after video post onlin appear to show some protest express support for the 7 octob attack . `` while everi american ha the right to peac protest , call for violenc and physic intimid target jewish student and the jewish commun are blatantli antisemit , unconscion , and danger , '' the statement read . `` and echo the rhetor of terrorist organis , especi in the wake of the worst massacr commit against the jewish peopl sinc the holocaust , is despic . '' separ , presid joe biden also denounc `` blatant antisemit `` on colleg campus , without directli referenc ani one univers . `` even in recent day , we ' ve seen harass and call for violenc against jew . thi blatant antisemit is reprehens and danger - and it ha absolut no place on colleg campus , or anywher in our countri , '' he said in a statement mark the jewish passov holiday . new york mayor eric adam said he wa `` horrifi and disgust with the antisemit be spew at and around the columbia univers campu `` . the mayor said new york polic would arrest anyon found to to be break the law . on sunday , cnn report that a rabbi associ with the univers sent a messag to 300 jewish student advis them to keep away from campu in light of the unrest . `` it deepli pain me to say that i would strongli recommend you return home as soon as possibl and remain home until the realiti in and around campu ha dramat improv , '' the messag said , accord to cnn . the columbia barnard hillel - a jewish campu organis associ with columbia and it sister colleg , barnard - said it did not think jewish student should leav the univers . but it call on the univers and citi author to do more to protect student . the clear of the protest encamp on thursday wa describ as an `` extraordinari step `` by columbia univers presid dr nemat shafik , who said it wa necessari to provid a safe environ . among the particip in the protest wa the daughter of minnesota politician ilhan omar , who ha been suspend from her colleg . dr shafik had earlier face member of congress to defend columbia ' s effort to tackl antisemit . demonstr against the war in gaza continu to take place across the us , and at event attend by us presid joe biden . pro - palestinian protest recent block major road across the countri , restrict access to airport includ chicago ' s o ' hare intern and seattl - tacoma intern , as well as the golden gate bridg in san francisco and brooklyn bridg in new york .