benjamin netanyahu ha told uk foreign secretari lord cameron that israel would `` make it own decis `` over how to respond to an iranian attack . he said hi govern would `` do everyth necessari to defend itself `` dure talk the british govern had hope would help prevent escal . mr netanyahu ha repeatedli vow to retali to the unpreced missil and drone assault at the weekend . lord cameron told him ani respons should be `` smart `` and limit . speak to report in jerusalem after the meet with mr netanyahu , lord cameron said he wa there to `` demonstr our solidar `` after iran ' s `` appal `` attack . he continu : `` we hope that anyth israel doe is as limit and as target and as smart as possibl . `` it ' s in no - one ' s interest that we see escal and that is what we said veri clearli to all the peopl i ' ve been speak to here in israel . '' after the meet , the isra prime minist said : `` i want to make it clear - we will make our own decis , and the state of israel will do everyth necessari to defend itself . '' mr netanyahu ' s remark will reinforc the belief in western capit that israel is set to take action against iran and there is a limit to how often they can call for restraint . israel is more than awar of concern in europ and the unit state about the war escal in the region . howev , western leader may take comfort from the fact that isra leader are tri to exploit the diplomat support they have gain after iran ' s attack , which ha seen intern condemn and the promis of new sanction on tehran . it is possibl mr netanyahu may not want to destroy that allianc with an act of retali that plung the region into a full - scale war . lord cameron is one of sever western foreign minist who are expect to visit israel in the come day as part of a diplomat drive to prevent that from happen . befor meet mr netanyahu , lord cameron held talk with isra presid isaac herzog and isra foreign affair minist israel katz . the uk foreign secretari also visit the occupi palestinian territori to meet mohammad mustafa , the prime minist of the palestinian author . g7 minist are gather in itali , where lord cameron will push for co - ordin sanction on iran . earlier , he accus tehran of be `` behind so much of the malign activ `` in the middl east and call for other countri to adopt measur design to restrict iran ' s influenc . the us and european union are consid further sanction , and israel is call on it alli to design the islam revolutionari guard corp ( irgc ) - a major militari , polit and econom forc in iran - as a terrorist organis . the isra govern ha repeatedli vow to retali after iran sent more than 300 drone and missil toward israel in an unpreced direct attack overnight on saturday . almost all the projectil were intercept by israel ' s air defenc system , with the help of the uk , us , franc , and jordan . iran ' s direct attack on israel wa carri out in respons to a strike in syria on 1 april which kill senior iranian militari figur . israel ha not publicli confirm it wa behind the attack , but is wide believ to have been . on tuesday even , uk prime minist rishi sunak spoke to mr netanyahu and warn that `` signific escal will onli deepen instabl in the region `` , ad : `` thi is a moment for calm head to prevail . '' lord cameron will seek to reinforc mr sunak ' s call for restraint dure hi visit to israel , and put more pressur on it leader to do more to allow humanitarian aid into gaza - but he is walk a delic diplomat line . the foreign secretari will not want to appear to be hector an alli which ha just been subject to an unpreced attack on it soil . that is whi lord cameron is also talk about the need for hama to releas hostag and the import of western power impos yet more sanction on iran . hi presenc in jerusalem is a show of support and solidar - but also an attempt to warn isra leader that ani signific escal would be against their interest and the world ' s .