the isra armi ha launch an investig after a palestinian volunt paramed wa kill in the occupi west bank . the palestinian red crescent ( prc ) said moham awad allan , 50 , wa shot while treat peopl who had been injur by isra settler . the israel defens forc ( idf ) said forc were sent to the villag of as - sawiya to break up clash . it confirm an ambul driver wa kill , and that it wa investig . the circumst of the death are not clear . in a statement on sunday , the idf said troop and israel border polic forc were sent follow report of a `` violent confront of mutual rock hurl that occur between palestinian and isra civilian in the area of as - sawiya `` . it ad : `` dure the incid , an ambul driver for the palestin red crescent wa kill . the militari polic have open an investig . '' the prc said mr allan tri to treat peopl injur `` by gunshot fire by isra settler `` . some hebrew - languag media report said mr allan wa kill by fire from the isra arm forc - other report he wa shot by arm settler . accord to prc , mr allan serv as a volunt with the qaryut ambul committe - an initi to offer ambul servic to the area ' s resid . separ , palestinian offici said at least 14 peopl , includ a boy and a gunman , were kill in an isra militari oper in the west bank refuge camp of nur sham on saturday . the isra militari said secur forc had kill 10 peopl it said were terrorist , and arrest eight other . west bank violenc ha been on the rise for month . around 700 , 000 isra live in 160 settlement alongsid 2 . 7 million palestinian in the occupi west bank and east jerusalem , accord to the isra settlement watchdog peac now . the intern commun regard the settlement as illeg , although israel disput thi . there are also about 160 so - call outpost , or small settlement , which have been built without offici approv and are consid illeg under isra law . tension were alreadi high befor 7 octob , when hama launch a deadli attack on israel , spark the war in gaza . sinc then , more than 460 palestinian have been kill in the west bank , accord to the palestinian health ministri . those death includ arm fighter amid a rise in raid by the isra militari on palestinian town and villag . in the same period , at least 13 isra have been kill in the west bank , includ two member of israel ' s secur forc . human right group say incid of settler attack , and alleg involv of the secur forc , are rare fulli investig . on 16 april , the un human right offic call on isra secur forc to end what it call their activ particip in and support for attack by settler in the west bank .