for the leader of both hama and israel , end the war in gaza ha becom a deadli game of surviv . the term on which the war final end could larg determin their polit futur and their grip on power . for hama leader yahya sinwar , even hi physic surviv . it ’ s partli whi previou negoti have fail . it ’ s also whi the question of how to perman end the fight ha been put off to the last stage of the plan outlin by us presid joe biden on friday . that transit between talk on a limit hostag - for - prison deal to discuss about a perman ceasefir would , mr biden acknowledg , be “ difficult ” . but it ’ s also where the success or failur of thi latest deal is like to hing . the us say it ha submit a draft resolut to the un secur council support the ceasefir plan outlin by presid biden . the three - phase plan involv an end to the conflict , the releas of the hostag and reconstruct of the palestinian territori . israel ’ s prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , ha strong domest reason for want to take thi deal step by step . phase one , as outlin by mr biden , would see the releas of dozen of hostag , both live and dead . that would be wide welcom in a countri where the failur to free all those held by hama is , for mani , a glare moral stain on mr netanyahu ' s manag of the war . but hama is unlik to give up it most polit sensit hostag – women , wound , elderli – without some kind of guarante that israel won ’ t simpli restart the war onc they ’ re home . israel confirm death of four more hostag in gazaleak , quot by isra media on monday morn , suggest that benjamin netanyahu ha told parliamentari colleagu that israel would be abl to keep it option open . that option , to resum fight – until hama is “ elimin ” – is , some believ , the least mr netanyahu ’ s far - right coalit partner will demand . without their support , he face the prospect of earli elect and the continu of a corrupt trial . mr netanyahu need to keep hi long - term option open , to stand a chanc of win their support for ani initi hostag deal . hama leader , on the other hand , are like to want perman ceasefir guarante upfront . previou deal have collaps into thi chasm . bridg it now will depend on how much room for manoeuvr mr netanyahu ha with hi hard - right govern alli to find altern to the “ elimin ” of hama – and how far hama leader are prepar to consid them . mr netanyahu talk over the weekend about the destruct of hama ’ s “ militari and govern capabl ” and ensur that the group no longer pose a threat to israel . few disput that hama ha suffer major loss to it militari infrastructur – and even , some say , to it public support within gaza and it control of the street . but there ’ s no sign that israel ha kill or captur it top leader yahya sinwar and moham deif , and leav them free in gaza to celebr the withdraw of isra forc would spell polit disast for israel ’ s embattl prime minist . on monday a us state depart spokesman said that although hama ' s capabl had `` steadili degrad `` in recent month , it remain a threat and the us did not believ the group could be elimin militarili . meanwhil the white hous said mr biden had `` confirm israel ’ s readi to move forward with the term that have now been offer to hama `` and said the palestinian group wa now the onli obstacl to a deal . separ , militari spokesman rear admir daniel hagari said the isra militari would be abl to ensur israel ' s secur in the event of ani truce agre by the govern . howev yanir cozin , diplomat correspond with israel ’ s militari radio station , glz , believ that mr netanyahu won ’ t end the war until he can frame it as a success . “ a deal that leav hama is a big failur , ” he said . “ eight month on , when you haven ’ t achiev ani of the war goal – not finish hama , bring all the hostag back , or secur the border – then he doesn ’ t want to end the war . but he also understand that he can not leav it until the next isra elect in 2026 . ” “ if he can say , ‘ we exil yahya sinwar and moham deif , they ’ re not live in gaza ’ – and if the peopl live close to gaza and the northern border can go back – i think he can keep hi govern togeth . but it ’ s a lot of ‘ if ’ . ” hama is veri unlik to agre to the exil or surrend of it top figur . but there are clear split emerg between hama leader insid and outsid gaza . former isra prime minist ehud barak , who ha also serv as defenc minist , told isra radio on monday that presid biden had announc the deal “ after see that netanyahu onli move ahead when he ’ s certain that sinwar will refus ” . “ how do you think sinwar will react when he tend to agre and then he ’ s told : but be quick , becaus we still have to kill you after you return all the hostag , ” he said . in the meantim , ten of thousand of isra displac after the hama attack on 7 octob are watch their prime minist ’ s next move . among them is yarin sultan , a 31 - year - old mother of three who ran from her home in sderot on gaza ’ s border the morn after the hama attack . she say she won ’ t go home until yahya sinwar and moham deif are no longer free . “ thi ceasefir will kill us , ” she told the bbc . “ we will free the hostag , but a few year from now you will be the next hostag , you will be the next peopl who get murder , the women that are rape – all thi will happen again . ” addit report by rushdi aboualouf