ebrahim raisi stood close to the pinnacl of power in the islam republ and wa wide tip to rise to it veri top . a dramat turn dealt him a differ hand . hi death in a helicopt crash on sunday ha upend the grow specul over who will eventu replac the 85 - year - old suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , whose own health ha long been the focu of intens interest . the tragic fate of iran ’ s hardlin presid is not expect to disrupt the direct of iranian polici or jolt the islam republ in ani consequenti way . but it will test a system where conserv hardlin now domin all branch of power , both elect and unelect . “ the system will make a massiv show of hi death and stick to constitut procedur to show function , while it seek a new recruit who can maintain conserv uniti and loyalti to khamenei , ” observ dr sanam vakil , director of the middl east and north africa programm at the chatham hous think tank . raisi ' s oppon will hail the exit of a former prosecutor accus of a decis role in the mass execut of polit prison in the 1980 which he deni ; they will hope the end of hi rule hasten the end of thi regim . for iran ’ s rule conserv , the state funer will be an occas freight with emot ; it will also be an opportun to start send their signal of continu . they know the world is watch . “ for 40 some year , in western narr , iran wa suppos to collaps and fall apart , '' professor moham marandi of tehran univers told the bbc . '' but somehow , miracul , it ' s still here and i predict it will still be here in year to come . ” anoth critic posit which must be fill is the seat held by thi middl - rank cleric on the assembl of expert , the bodi empow to choos the new suprem leader , when that far more consequenti transit come . “ raisi wa a potenti successor becaus , like khamenei himself when he becam suprem leader , he wa rel young , veri loyal , an ideologu commit to the system who ha name recognit , ” say dr vakil of thi opaqu process of select , where a number of name are seen to be in the run includ the suprem leader ’ s son mojtaba khamenei . even befor raisi ’ s death wa offici confirm , the ayatollah convey in a post on x that “ the iranian peopl should not worri , there will be no disrupt in the countri ’ s affair . ” the more immedi polit challeng will be stage earli presidenti elect . power ha been transfer to vice - presid mohammad mokhber ; new elect must be held within 50 day . thi appeal to voter will come just month after march ’ s parliamentari elect reveal a record low turnout in a countri which onc pride itself on strong enthusiast particip in thi exercis . recent elect , includ the contest in 2021 which brought raisi to the presid , were also mark by the systemat exclus of moder and pro - reform rival by the oversight bodi . “ earli presidenti elect could provid khamenei and the upper echelon of the state with an opportun to revers that trajectori to give voter a way back into the polit process , ” say mohammad ali shabani , editor of london - base news websit amwaj . media . “ but , unfortun , so far we have seen no indic of the state be readi and will to take such a step . ” but , even within raisi ’ s rank , there appear to be no obviou successor . “ there are differ camp within thi conserv group , includ individu who are more hardlin and other regard as more pragmat , ” point out hamidreza azizi , a visit fellow at swp , the berlin - base think tank . he believ thi will intensifi the current jockey for posit within the new parliament and at local level . whoever assum raisi ’ s mantl inherit a forbid agenda and limit lever of power . ultim decis - make author in the islam republ lie with the suprem leader . foreign polici , especi in the region , is the preserv of the islam revolut guard corp ( irgc ) who wield grow power . the presid didn ’ t call the shot month ago when iran confront unpreced tension with it arch - enemi israel over the devast israel gaza war . it trigger a danger tit - for - tat and set alarm bell ring in mani capit , most of all tehran , over the potenti for an even riskier escalatori spiral . but as he presid over day - to - day busi , iranian struggl to cope with deepen financi hardship link to crippl intern sanction as well as mismanag and corrupt . inflat soar to more than 40 % ; the rial currenc plung in valu . on hi watch , the islam republ wa also shaken by an extraordinari wave of protest spark by the death in custodi in septemb 2022 of 22 - year - old mahsa amini who wa detain by moral polic for allegedli violat iran ’ s strict dress code . week befor the unrest , raisi had order a tighten of iran ’ s “ hijab and chastiti law ” which oblig women to behav and dress modestli includ wear a headscarf . but the protest spearhead by a young gener of women , lash out against a raft of restrict impos on their live , mainli focus their furi on the real sourc of power , the suprem leader and the system itself . human right group say hundr were kill in the crackdown and thousand detain . “ have been elect with the lowest record turnout in presidenti elect in iranian histori , raisi did not have the popular mandat of hi predecessor rouhani , “ say shabani in refer to the reformist leader hassan rouhani whose initi popular wa partli fuell by the 2015 landmark nuclear deal which fell apart when presid trump unilater pull the us out three year later . indirect talk between presid biden ’ s administr and raisi ’ s team made littl progress . “ he avoid much of the ire which wa direct at rouhani by oppon of the islam republ , partli becaus he wa simpli seen as less influenti and effectu , ” explain shabani . the helicopt crash also took the life of iran ’ s foreign minist hossein amir - abdollahian who play an activ role in tri to present tehran ’ s case to the world and find way to eas the punish impact of sanction . dure the urgent diplomaci around the israel - gaza war , he wa the voic on the phone and the face at meet with iran ’ s alli , as well as with arab and western foreign minist anxiou to calm and contain tension . “ he wa a use channel to pass messag , ” comment a senior western diplomat sourc . “ but it tend to be quit formula sinc power did not lie in the foreign ministri . ” “ the sudden death of a presid is normal a consequenti event but , despit be seen as a potenti suprem leader , he lack polit support and ani clear polit vision , ” maintain analyst esfandyar batmanghelidj , ceo of the bours and bazaar think tank . “ but the polit oper who got him elect will adjust and advanc without him . ”