us speaker of the hous mike johnson will invit isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu to address congress . mr johnson , who lead the republican - control hous , told cnbc they are `` tri to work out schedul `` . the news come as the relationship between isra leader and lead us democrat ha grown tens . top senat democrat chuck schumer ha call for isra voter to replac mr netanyahu , who he ha deem a barrier to peac talk in gaza . `` i would love to have him come in and address a joint session of congress , '' mr johnson told the network on thursday . `` we ' ll certainli extend that invit . '' he ad that he had person been invit to address isra lawmak in the knesset , call it a `` great honour `` . mr schumer , who is jewish and a support of israel , deliv a 40 - minut speech on the senat floor last week call for israel to hold new elect to replac mr netanyahu . he criticis mr netanyahu and hi conserv govern for hi handl of the war in gaza , say he `` ha lost hi way `` and argu that he stand in the way of peac between isra and palestinian . mr johnson on thursday criticis him for those remark . `` to suggest to our strongest alli in the middl east , the onli stabl democraci , that he know better how to run their democraci is just patent absurd , '' he said . in respons to mr johnson , mr schumer ' s offic releas a statement say he did not object to an address by mr netanyahu . `` israel ha no stronger alli than the unit state and our relationship transcend ani one presid or ani one prime minist , '' mr schumer said . `` i will alway welcom the opportun for the prime minist of israel to speak to congress in a bipartisan way . '' mr johnson ' s comment on the invit come a day after mr netanyahu deliv remark behind close door to republican in the senat . mr schumer turn down a request from mr netanyahu to speak to senat democrat , say ani address should be done in a bipartisan fashion . mr netanyahu last spoke to the us congress in 2015 , when both chamber were control by republican . he use the opportun to criticis then presid barack obama , a democrat , for pursu a deal with us alli and iran to curtail that countri ' s nuclear programm . mr netanyahu ' s possibl address also come as an aid bill for israel appear to have stall in congress and as israel prepar for an oper in rafah , a citi in southern gaza that palestinian refuge have fled to . an isra deleg is due to visit washington to discuss the plan assault next week , accord to us offici . they were invit by presid joe biden , who ha attempt to discourag israel from go through with the oper , in a recent call with mr netanyahu . mr biden , who is run for re - elect in novemb , ha come under polit pressur from hi parti ' s left wing to do more to convinc israel to limit it war in gaza , which began when hama gunmen storm into southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take more than 250 other hostag . more than 31 , 000 palestinian have been kill sinc the war start , accord to the hama - led health ministri in gaza . the death toll ha drawn intern concern and condemn . correct 25th april : thi articl previous state that 31 , 000 palestinian civilian have die sinc the start of the war and ha been amend to make clear that thi is the overal palestinian death toll . sign up for our morn newslett and get bbc news in your inbox .