iran ’ s suprem leader ha presid over a funer for the countri ’ s late presid , foreign minist and other kill in a helicopt crash on sunday . ayatollah ali khamenei led prayer at tehran univers , where casket carri the dead were drape in iranian flag . presid ebrahim raisi die alongsid foreign minist hossein amir - abdollahian and six other in a helicopt crash near the border with azerbaijan . author had warn against demonstr against the funer process and insult post onlin . “ oh allah , we didn ’ t see anyth but good from him , ” ayatollah khamenei said in the standard prayer for the dead in arab . iran ’ s act presid , mohammad mokhber , stood nearbi and openli wept dure the servic . peopl then carri the coffin out on their shoulder , with chant of “ death to america ” heard outsid . they load them onto a trailer for a process through downtown tehran to azadi squar , where raisi gave speech in the past . in attend were top leader of iran ’ s paramilitari revolutionari guard , one of the countri ’ s major power centr . repres from more than 68 countri were also in attend , accord to the govern - run irna news agenc . also on hand wa ismail haniyeh of hama , the milit group that iran ha arm and support dure the ongo israel - hama war . haniyeh is wide consid hama ' s overal leader and ha been a promin member of the movement sinc 1980 . the us depart of state design him a terrorist in 2018 . “ i come in the name of the palestinian peopl , in the name of the resist faction of gaza ... to express our condol , ” haniyeh said . he also describ meet raisi in tehran dure ramadan , the holi muslim fast month . he said he heard the presid say that `` the palestinian issu `` remain the key one of the muslim world , which `` must fulfil their oblig to the palestinian to liber their land `` . he also claim that raisi call hama ' s 7 octob attack in israel , which saw 1 , 200 peopl kill and 250 other taken hostag , an `` earthquak in the heart of the zionist entiti `` . ayatollah khamenei met sever foreign leader , includ pakistan ' s prime minist shehbaz sharif and lebanes parliament speaker nabih berri , as they arriv in tehran for the funer . a deleg from the taliban of afghanistan , which includ their foreign minist amir khan muttaqi , are also expect to have attend the ceremoni . iran ’ s theocraci declar five day of mourn over sunday ’ s crash , encourag peopl to attend the public mourn session . typic , govern employe and schoolchildren attend such event en mass , while other take part out of patriot , curios or to wit histor event . for iran ’ s shiit theocraci , mass demonstr have been crucial to demonstr the legitimaci of their leadership sinc million throng the street of tehran to welcom grand ayatollah ruhollah khomeini in 1979 dure the islam revolut , and also attend hi funer 10 year later . an estim one million turn out in 2020 for process for the late revolutionari guard gener qasem soleimani , who wa kill in a us drone strike in baghdad . across the capit , larg banner were rais hail raisi as `` the martyr of servic `` , while other bade `` farewel to the servant of the disadvantag `` . some resid in tehran receiv text urg them to attend wednesday ' s ceremoni , the afp news agenc report . footag carri by state tv show street fill with mourner , mani of whom were carri pictur of raisi or the iranian flag . funer rite for the men began on tuesday in the citi of tabriz and the shiit cleric centr of qom , where thousand of mourner attend ceremoni . after wednesday ' s process in the capit , raisi ' s remain will be move to south khorasan provinc , befor be transfer to hi home citi of mashhad in the northeast . he will then be buri on thursday even in the citi after funer rite at the imam reza shrine . raisi , a hardlin cleric , wa a highli divis figur in iran . in the 1980 , he oversaw the execut of score of opposit activist while work as a prosecutor . he unleash a brutal crackdown against demonstr anger by the kill of 22 - year - old mahsa amini in 2022 . she die three day after she wa detain by moral polic in the capit for allegedli violat iran ' s strict rule requir women to cover their hair with a hijab , or headscarf . but hi ultra - conserv outlook won favour with support of the regim , and raisi wa view as a possibl successor to ayatollah khamenei .