`` what is the fate of the children suffer from hunger ? will they find someon to save them or will they die ? my son ali ha alreadi die . '' the father of ali , a palestinian babi boy who recent die of malnutrit and dehydr at northern gaza ' s onli paediatr hospit , ha appeal for help for the other children be treat there , as the un warn of famin if aid deliveri are not substanti increas . `` ali wa born in wartim and there wa no food or anyth for hi mother to eat - a matter which caus hi kidney to fail , '' the man - who did not want to be name - said in an interview record for bbc arab ' s gaza lifelin radio servic . `` ali ' s life got wors day after day . we tri to get him treat at hospit , but there wa no help ... ali die in front of the entir world , which kept watch him pass away . '' tragic , ali wa just one of at least 10 children who a world health organis team said had die as a result of a lack of food at the overwhelm kamal adwan hospit in the town of beit lahia , follow a visit over the weekend . gaza ' s hama - run health ministri ha report the death of 18 children due to malnutrit and dehydr across the territori sinc last week , with at least 15 happen at kamal adwan . it ha also express fear for six infant who it said were be treat for malnutrit at the hospit . the un ' s children ' s agenc , unicef , ha warn that the number of children starv to death is like to rapidli increas unless the war between israel and hama end and obstacl to humanitarian relief are immedi resolv . gaza ' s health ministri say children and women make up 70 % of the more than 30 , 700 peopl who have been kill and 72 , 000 other injur in the territori sinc the start of the war . the isra militari launch an air and ground campaign in gaza after hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob , in which around 1 , 200 peopl - mostli civilian - were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . an estim 300 , 000 peopl are current isol in northern gaza , where the world food programm say hunger ha reach catastroph level becaus onli a trickl of aid ha been abl to get through . malnutrit screen carri out there by un agenc in januari found that one in six children under two year of age wa acut malnourish . of those children , almost 3 % were suffer from sever wast and requir urgent treatment . the lack of nutriti food , safe water and medic servic - as well as exhaust and trauma caus by the conflict - is also hinder the abil of mother to breastfe their babi . without breast milk or formula - the suppli of which are report to be almost non - exist in the north - babi can quickli becom sever dehydr and malnourish , which increas the risk of life - threaten condit like kidney failur . dr samia abdel jalil , who work at kamal adwan ' s intens care unit , said in an interview for gaza lifelin that an infant girl and her older sister had die at the hospit within day of each other . `` we had difficulti in obtain milk for the entir depart and not just for that littl girl , '' she recal . `` she die without get her small dose of milk . '' salah samara , a four - month - old boy , is one of the serious ill children who dr abdel jalil and her colleagu are tri to treat with the limit resourc at their dispos . hi mother said he wa born prematur and becam sever dehydr , and that he wa now suffer from chronic kidney diseas and urinari retent , which is extrem pain and caus abdomin bloat . `` my heart hurt a lot becaus of what is happen with him . it is a veri difficult thing that you see your child cri everi day for be unabl to urin ... and the doctor are unabl to give assist to him . '' `` he ha the right to receiv treatment and ha the right to everyth els , by virtu of be a child at the begin of hi life , '' she ad . `` [ hi ] condit is get wors everi day . he need treatment abroad immedi and urgent . i hope that anyon who listen to my voic will help treat my child . '' dr ahm al - kahlot , kamal adwan ' s director , meanwhil warn that the child death so far report by the health ministri underst the true scale of the problem . `` the number of case of death due to malnutrit began to be count two week ago , so the actual number is much higher than that , '' he said . the director - gener of the world health organ , dr tedro adhanom ghebreyesu , wrote on x , formerli twitter , on monday that the agenc wa abl to deliv fuel and some essenti medic suppli to kamal adwan and anoth hospit they visit on the weekend , al - awda in jabalia . but he warn that the deliveri repres a fraction of the urgent lifesav need . `` we appeal to israel to ensur humanitarian aid can be deliv safe , and regularli . civilian , especi children , and health staff need scale - up help immedi . but the key medicin all these patient need is peac , '' he said . western govern are also increas pressur for israel to do more to facilit the distribut of aid - on tuesday joe biden said `` we must get more aid into gaza ... there ' s no excus , none `` . howev on tuesday the world food programm ( wfp ) said it first attempt in two week to bring food aid to northern gaza wa block by isra soldier . the un agenc said the convoy of 14 lorri wa `` turn back `` at a checkpoint and later loot by crowd of `` desper peopl `` . the bbc ha contact the idf for comment . the isra defenc ministri bodi task with co - ordin aid access in gaza said : `` we will continu expand our humanitarian effort to the civilian popul in gaza while we fulfil our goal of free our hostag from hama and free gaza from hama . ''