six month after the hama attack on israel , war , diseas , starvat and death ravag palestinian in gaza . israel is deepli divid , as it prime minist struggl to keep hi promis of total victori . the unit state , israel ' s most essenti alli , ha turn against the way it is fight the war . with iran vow vengeanc for israel ' s assassin of a lead iranian gener in syria , and month of cross - border conflict with iran ' s alli hezbollah in lebanon , the risk of an all - out middl east war are increas . the statist record the horror of the past six month . more than 33 , 000 gazan , a major of whom were civilian , have been kill , accord to the health ministri . accord to save the children , 13 , 800 palestinian children in gaza have been kill and over 12 , 009 wound . unicef report at least 1 , 000 children have had one or both leg amput . about 1 , 200 peopl , mostli civilian , were kill by hama on 7 octob , and 253 peopl were taken into gaza as hostag . israel say that of 130 hostag still there , at least 34 are dead . a un team report in march that it had `` clear and convinc inform `` that hostag had been subject to sexual violenc `` includ rape , sexualis tortur , cruel , inhuman and degrad treatment `` . it said there were `` reason ground `` to believ that the violenc against hostag wa continu . kibbutz nir oz is right on israel ' s border with gaza . it feel like a time capsul still stuck in the horror of 7 octob 2023 . just after first light on that morn , hama broke through the wire . by the time the isra armi arriv in the earli afternoon , a quarter of the 400 or so isra who live there had either been kill by hama or taken hostag . ron bahat show me around . he is a man in hi 50 who grew up at nir oz . ron surviv with hi famili through good luck and arm strong enough to hold shut the door of the safe room when hama enter hi hous . we walk along the neat line of small hous , with garden that are now overgrown . mani had bullet hole or were burnt out and had not been disturb sinc the bodi of the dead were recov . ron point out the home of friend and neighbour who were kill or taken as captiv to gaza . in one badli damag hous , a pile of neatli iron children ' s cloth had somehow surviv the fire . the famili who live there did not . one grim ironi is that nir oz is part of a left - wing movement whose member tradit support the idea of peac with the palestinian . six month after hama cross into nir oz , ron is not readi to make ani concess to gaza . `` look , i wish that there will be a leader to bring some prosper there , becaus in the end we must have peac . but anyon who support hama is an enemi . the moment they leav their weapon , the war will stop . the moment that israel leav it weapon , we will not exist . that ' s the differ . '' in nir oz , broken glass still crunch underfoot and gut hous smell of burnt wood and plastic . no - one is there to clean it up . a few of the surviv resid have come back on short visit , but most are stay away , live in hotel in central israel . yamit avit wa back for a few hour , show around a friend . on that morn in octob , she had been stay in tel aviv . her husband wa at home and escap with the children . hi brother , live not far away , wa kill . yamit ' s hand shook slightli when she wa talk about come back to live in nir oz again . `` i don ' t know , it ' s too earlyâ €¦ mayb onli when the hostag come back we can start to think about it . we can ' t think about it now . i have too mani friend there , in gaza . '' no - one ha been abl to show me around the ruin of khan youni or gaza citi , or the tent of around 1 . 4 million displac civilian in rafah , in the way ron bahat show me nir oz . that ' s becaus intern journalist can ' t report from gaza , as israel and egypt , in control of the border , have not allow them in . the onli except ha been invit - onli , highli supervis trip organis by the israel defens forc ( idf ) . i have been on one , to northern gaza in earli novemb . onli a month or so into the war , isra firepow had alreadi reduc the area to a wasteland . evid is accumul that both hama and israel may have commit war crime . the intern court of justic ( icj ) in the hagu is investig israel for `` plausibl `` alleg of genocid against the palestinian in a case brought by south africa . the icj can not tri a case against hama , which is classifi as a terrorist organis by the us and uk , and mani other , as it is not a state . israel reject the charg that it is guilti of genocid . for mani of it citizen and support it is grotesqu and offens to alleg that the state creat after nazi germani murder six million jew in the holocaust is itself commit genocid . one of israel ' s lawyer , tal becker , told the justic in court in the hagu that `` the appal suffer of civilian , both isra and palestinian , is first and foremost the result of hama ' strategi `` . palestinian see the charg through a differ len , shape by year of militari occup by israel . mani palestinian believ israel ha alreadi creat an apartheid state that deni them the most basic right . in jerusalem at easter , a promin palestinian christian polit activist , dimitri diliani , told me that `` kill children is kill children . it doesn ' t matter who is the child that ' s be kill . it doesn ' t matter who is do the kill `` . `` i recognis the holocaust , but that doe not mean a green light for israel to commit genocid against my peopl or ani other peopl . '' the icj ' s deliber will take year and israel ' s accus will have to prove intent to win their case . war and the death of civilian do not add up to genocid on their own . south africa ' s legal team argu that statement like the one made by israel ' s defenc minist yoav gallant on 9 octob show genocid intent . `` i have order a complet sieg on the gaza strip . there will be no electr , no food , no fuel , everyth is close , '' he said after visit the idf southern command in beersheba . `` we are fight human anim and we are act accordingli . '' israel wa forc by intern pressur , especi from washington , to loosen aspect of the blockad that the minist envisag . the amount reach gaza were still grossli inadequ . six month later , gaza is face immin famin , accord to the integr food secur phase classif ( ipc ) a bodi back by govern , the un and aid group to provid rigor and apolit inform and analysi in a food emerg . oxfam report that 300 , 000 peopl trap in the north have live sinc januari on an averag of 245 calori a day - the equival of a tin of bean . gaza ' s humanitarian catastroph ha also been record in detail by palestinian journalist , civilian post on social media , and the intern organis run the aid oper , whose staff are allow to enter the territori . seven from the world central kitchen ( wck ) , which had been provid million of meal , were kill by the isra armi on 1 april . their death outrag presid biden and other western leader who are staunch alli of israel . their condemn of the kill left israel even more isol . israel expect no sympathi from much of the world . but it ha come to expect support and understand from power western alli . instead , they have reject israel ' s claim it doe not imped the movement of relief suppli . presid biden extract unusu rapid concess from israel , which promis greater humanitarian access to gaza in a statement rush out in the middl of the night here in jerusalem . perhap he threaten to attach condit to the use of american weapon in gaza . the kill of the wck team seem to have been a tip point for presid biden , whose back for israel ha been a constant throughout hi long career in polit . support israel is still hi firm principl , but the us is no longer prepar to turn that into a safeti net for benjamin netanyahu and hi extremist coalit partner . palestinian ask , with some anger and frustrat , whi it took the death of seven aid worker , includ six western , to make a differ , after so mani thousand of gazan had been kill . aid agenc oper in gaza say the attack on the aid worker wa not an isol incid , but the result of an engrain disregard for the live of palestinian civilian . presid biden ' s outrag might have been a long time come but it could creat a turn point in the war . over the next month or so , one way of assess chang is simpli to count whether israel is kill fewer palestinian civilian , or whether increas food and medic aid can save gaza from famin . anoth test will be whether mr netanyahu defi american opposit and goe ahead with a ground assault on rafah , where israel say the remain organis unit of hama must be destroy . the us say that must not happen until israel can find a way to protect the live of almost 1 . 5 million palestinian who have taken refug there . benjamin netanyahu ha deliv the `` mighti vengeanc `` he promis isra on 7 octob . hi other promis , of total victori , the destruct of hama , and the return of the hostag have not been achiev . insid israel , he face sever polit pressur . hi approv rate in opinion poll have plummet . in the past week in jerusalem thousand of protestor wave isra flag block street around the parliament demand the resign of the prime minist and new elect . `` netanyahu ha an interest to lengthen the war as much as he can , becaus as long as the war is still go on , he can say that now is not the time for new elect , '' said nava rosalio , one of the leader of the anti - netanyahu movement . her group is call busha in hebrew , which translat as shame . `` he say now is not the time to look for who is respons , which is he . so he prefer to keep the hostag in gaza , and he prefer to lengthen the war . '' when hama attack , israel wa deepli divid over hi govern ' s right - wing polici and cultur war between secular and religi isra . in the shock that follow reservist who had suspend their militari servic as part of the protest rush back into uniform . demonstr were paus in the interest of nation uniti . six month on , it is no longer consid unpatriot to protest against the failur to end the war and free the hostag . israel ' s divis are wide open onc more . mr netanyahu face sear accus that hi prioriti is hi own polit surviv . to stay in power , he must preserv hi coalit , which is built around the support of ultranationalist jewish parti . they do not onli oppos the mass releas of palestinian secur prison to buy the freedom of isra hostag , without which a ceasefir will not happen . mr netanyahu ' s two main ultranationalist alli , financ minist bezalel smotrich and nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir , go further . they both want palestinian to leav gaza so jew can settl there instead . the prime minist , renown for hi skill in the dark art of polit , is perform a balanc act to keep them happi while deni that mr smotrich and mr ben - gvir ' s view reflect govern polici . befor octob , israel ' s divis must have made it look vulner to hama . six month on , the same schism within israel about the present and the futur are make it harder to win the war . captur or kill yahya sinwar , the hama leader in gaza and mastermind of the 7 octob attack , would give israel a chanc to declar victori . but he is still aliv , send hi respons to propos in success round of ceasefir talk from wherev he is hide . he is thought to be somewher in the hama tunnel network , protect by bodyguard and a human shield of isra hostag . yahya sinwar must be disappoint that palestinian on the west bank , includ east jerusalem have not risen up in support of gaza . some must be take the long view , wait to see how event unfold in gaza and the wider middl east . other are struggl to feed their famili now that thousand of palestinian are no longer allow to work in israel . some are scare . israel ha launch mani deadli raid against arm group in the west bank , kill innoc bystand in the process and arrest thousand who are be held without trial . some palestinian farmer have been driven off their land after violent and sometim deadli intimid by extremist jewish settler . opinion poll show strong support among palestinian for the attack on 7 octob , though mani deni the evid that hama commit atroc . at a noisi demonstr against the isra in ramallah in the west bank , i ask joharah baker , a palestinian activist , whether the hama attack had move the palestinian ani closer to independ from isra rule . she said that wa not the point . `` what happen on 7 octob is just one thing that happen in mani long year of oppressionâ €¦ our struggl will continu until we are free . that is what ani peopl under occup , under oppress , under coloni settler will do . '' accord to the lead palestinian pollster , khalil shikaki , even those who dislik hama approv of the way it attack have put the palestinian desir for independ back on the polit map of the middl east . the war ha acceler a new way for that to happen . hi latest poll indic that younger palestinian do not think the two - state solut of an independ palestin alongsid israel will ever emerg . instead , he say , a plural of under - 30 want a singl state between the mediterranean sea and the river jordan , in which they believ they could fight and win democrat right . they compar their fight with the struggl against apartheid in south africa , and believ they have a palestinian nelson mandela wait in an isra jail . he is marwan barghouti , imprison sinc 2002 and serv five life sentenc for murder . if he ran for presid , the indic are that he would win easili . even though he is a leader of the rival palestinian faction , fatah , hama put marwan barghouti ' s name on the list of prison they want releas in exchang for hostag . it is imposs to see jewish isra ever give up the jewish natur of their state . the fact that palestinian see that as a possibl is anoth sign of the distanc between them . six month into the war , there is no immedi sign that it is end . benjamin netanyahu ha avoid ani specif about how gaza would be govern when thi war end , except for insist that israel must be in control - in other word , an occup . he ha reject america ' s propos to replac isra troop with a forc from the palestinian author , which administ part of the west bank . the american want a pa , revitalis , eventu to govern gaza . that would most like requir new leadership . current palestinian presid mahmoud abba is elderli and huge unpopular . palestinian say he ha fail to fight corrupt , fail to show sympathi for gaza , and fail to order the palestinian polic to protect them from aggress jewish settler while he continu secur cooper with israel . benjamin netanyahu ha also reject joe biden ' s idea of a grand bargain that would transform the middl east . in return for allow palestinian independ , israel would be recognis by saudi arabia , and the saudi would get a nato - style defenc agreement with the us . instead , the prime minist tell isra that he is the onli man who can save them from the mortal hazard of a palestinian state impos by america . that is music for the ultranationalist in hi govern , who are much keener to keep the west bank and all of jerusalem than make a deal with saudi arabia . away from the confer room where leader discuss the futur , the war ha creat anoth enorm obstacl to peac . palestinian and isra have not been as suspici of each other sinc the turbul decad of assassin , hijack and war in the 1950 and 60 . the pollster khalil shikaki identifi an acceler mutual process of dehumanis sinc 7 octob . `` the palestinian are not seen as partner for peac . they are not seen as peopl who deserv equal becaus of what they have done on 7 octob . so , they [ isra ] question their human . we see similar develop , unfortun , also among palestinian , who see what is happen in gaza . `` and they say those who are target women and children , deliber kill entir famili , demolish entir neighbourhood can not be human as well . so , they see them as monster . `` thi dehumanis is absolut disastr for the futur . '' addit report by oren rosenfeld , fred scott and kathi long