a temporari pier built by the us militari to deliv aid to gaza ha been damag by heavi sea and will take at least a week to be repair , accord to us offici . us forc began build the float pier - which is attach to gaza ' s shorelin by a temporari causeway - sever week ago . the causeway portion of the project ha now reportedli broken off and will have to be repair befor be return to it posit . humanitarian organis have warn that the amount of aid reach palestinian in gaza is onli a fraction of what is requir to meet the need of it popul . the pier , which wa first announc by us offici in march , is compris of two main compon : a larg float dock made up of steel segment and a two - lane , 1 , 800ft ( 548m ) causeway and pier . the causeway part of the project is compos of a seri of interconnect , 40ft ( 12m ) steel piec link togeth and attach to shore . on tuesday , the pentagon confirm that a portion of the causeway broke away in heavi sea . while it is tether to gaza ' s shorelin , the piec will need to be remov and taken to the isra port of ashod to be repair befor it can be re - attach to the causeway and back in action . accord to pentagon spokeswoman sabrina singh , the pier will be remov over the next two day with the help of the isra navi . the repair will take more than a week , she ad . ms singh said weather condit in the area had not creat an `` optim environ `` for the pier ' s deploy , but that defenc offici remain confid it would be oper again soon . `` i can ' t predict the weather , '' she said . “ but we believ that given the time of year , we will be abl to re - anchor thi pier . '' mick mulroy , a former deputi assist secretari of defenc for the middl east and one of the founder of fogbow , a privat firm involv in the gaza pier plan , told the bbc that weather - relat delay were `` expect `` to `` pose challeng `` . '' but those challeng can be overcom , and the mission itself is worth the effort , '' he said . `` peopl are in desper need of aid and thi is one mean to deliv it . '' on 17 may , the us militari confirm that the first shipment of humanitarian aid were deliv into gaza via the pier , but in a separ incid last weekend four vessel support the pier becam unmoor in `` heavi sea state `` , beach two of them . in an earlier incid , three us soldier take part in the gaza pier mission were also injur , one of whom wa in critic condit and evacu to a hospit in israel . the reuter news agenc quot the un world food programm ( wfp ) spokesperson as say that the un ha transport a total of 137 lorri of aid from the pier - approxim 900 metric tonn - sinc it began oper . at the white hous on tuesday , nation secur council spokesman john kirbi said the pier wa never expect to `` supplant `` aid reach gaza via land cross , but instead could be a `` forc multipli `` . the pentagon estim that more than 1 , 000 tonn have been deliv to shore , with just over 900 tonn reach un warehous . despit mount concern over the worsen humanitarian situat in gaza , isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha said he remain commit to `` total victori `` in rafah , hama ' last remain urban stronghold in the south of the strip . israel ' s militari campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other to gaza as hostag . more than 36 , 000 palestinian have been kill in the war sinc then , accord to gaza ' s hama - run health ministri .