presid joe biden upend part of one of the world ’ s most signific strateg relationship thi week . it happen in a tv interview , when mr biden wa ask what would happen if israel went ahead with a plan invas of rafah . “ i ’ m not suppli the weapon , ” he repli . arm shipment are the bedrock of the us - israel allianc . for the first time in four decad , a crack appear . mr biden ha been under sustain pressur at home and abroad to help prevent further major civilian casualti and a worsen humanitarian crisi in gaza . he final cross the threshold of withhold arm shipment to israel , american ’ s closest strateg alli in the region - a move not seen sinc presid ronald reagan in the 1980 . sinc the start of the war , mr biden ha been caught in a polit divid between an unquestioningli pro - israel republican parti , and hi own deepli divid democrat parti , say aaron david miller , a former state depart analyst and veteran middl east peac negoti . until now , the presid ha appear reluct to do anyth seen to damag the us - israel relationship , mr miller say . what chang wa mr biden ’ s view that the isra were close to a decis to invad rafah . on monday , israel said it ground forc were start `` target activ `` in the east of the citi , with isra tank said to be mass close to built - up area . resid report the constant sound of shell and said bare function hospit were overwhelm with the wound . the un say more than 100 , 000 peopl have fled the fight , and are face dire shortag of shelter , food , water and sanit servic . prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha repeatedli vow to launch a full ground invas of the citi , home to more than a million displac palestinian . he say a major oper is requir to destroy four remain hama battalion hide there , and will be carri out regardless of whether ani ceasefir talk succeed . washington ha repeatedli urg him not to , press for a more “ target oper ” in rafah against hama . mr miller say the presid fear a rafah invas “ would fundament undermin ani chanc of de - escal the war and free hostag ” . the former offici , who spent year advis administr in which mr biden serv , say the presid also want to avoid a crisi with neighbour egypt . there is also the risk that an invas would spark more angst and divis in the democrat parti , he say . “ so he sent a signal , ” say mr miller . in the run up to mr biden ’ s tv interview on wednesday , the us put a “ paus ” on an arm shipment to israel - just one consign of 2 , 000 - pound and 500 - pound bomb . a senior administr offici told me there wa particular concern on the “ end use ” of the high payload weapon and the impact they could have in dens urban set , “ as we have seen in other part of gaza ” . the 2 , 000 pound bomb are among the most destruct munit in israel ’ s arsen . it militari argu such munit are necessari to elimin hama . also under review were shipment of joint direct attack munit ( jdam ) kit which convert unguid bomb into guid one , the us offici said . on friday , the state depart issu a report order by mr biden earlier thi year , which said israel may have use american - suppli weapon in breach of intern humanitarian law in some instanc dure the war in gaza . but the report said that it did not have `` complet inform `` in it assess , mean militari aid could continu . colonel joe buccino , a former us armi artilleryman who rose to becom a senior offici at centcom , the us militari command in the middl east , point out that the isra militari could “ level ” rafah with the munit it alreadi ha . washington suppli israel with $ 3 . 8bn of militari assist a year . congress recent ad to that a further $ 17bn worth of weapon and defenc system - israel is cumul the world ’ s largest ever recipi of us lethal aid . col buccino say the paus shipment is “ somewhat inconsequenti ” to ani assault assault on rafah . “ it ' s like a littl bit of a polit play for peopl in the unit state who are … concern about thi , ” he say . whether that is the case or not , it ha not blunt the polit fallout from mr biden ’ s move . in the hall of the us senat , republican were seeth . “ i think that paus is absolut outrag , ” said us senat pete rickett , speak to me outsid a meet of the foreign relat committe . “ the presid realli ha no busi do thi . ” when i put it to him that israel still ha the mean to carri out it state plan assault , he repli : “ thi is about support our alli israel against a terrorist organis . ” anoth republican senat , john barrasso , said that israel had a right to “ do what they want to do to protect their sovereignti ” . for him mr biden ’ s move demonstr one thing : “ a weak of thi presid . ” but within mr biden ’ s own parti , there ha been a warmer recept for the shift . democrat senat chri coon two month ago call for restrict on militari assist to israel if it launch an assault into rafah “ at scale ” , without signific chang in how palestinian civilian were treat and protect . “ the conflict in gaza … ha led to a lot of pain reflect for mani of us who count ourselv as strong support of israel but are also veri concern about suffer and the humanitarian condit , ” he say . he believ the presid ha tri “ over and over ” to restrain mr netanyahu but that tension have grown becaus the isra leader reli on the polit support of ultranationalist who oppos humanitarian aid go to gaza and want to expel palestinian from the west bank . “ thi may be the first real break , ” say mr coon . the “ break ” with mr netanyahu also come at a critic moment in attempt to reach a ceasefir in exchang for the releas of hostag held by hama . talk in cairo broke up earlier thi week without appar resolut . some isra comment have suggest that mr biden ’ s move will compromis the hostag negoti - that ani attempt to blunt the threat of an isra assault on rafah would benefit hama . the run detail of the talk are , howev , mostli opaqu , make it hard to definit assess the claim . the biggest stumbl block is over hama ’ demand for a perman end to the war , which israel reject . the relationship between mr biden and mr netanyahu goe back five decad , and ha been turbul for just as long . when they were both young men , mr biden said he sign a pictur which later sat on mr netanyahu ’ s desk , write : “ bibi , i love you , but i don ’ t agre with a damn thing you have to say . ” mr netanyahu ha often prais the presid for hi support of israel , but they have fallen out frequent over major polici issu relat to the palestinian . less than a fortnight after the octob 7 attack , mr biden flew to israel and embrac mr netanyahu on the tarmac in tel aviv . i wa there as mr biden emerg from a meet with the isra leader and hi war cabinet and stood at a podium to assert hi unstint support for israel . but he had a warn : don ’ t repeat the mistak we made after the 9 / 11 attack . and he spell out what he meant : “ the palestinian peopl are suffer greatli as well , and we mourn the loss of innoc palestinian live like the entir world . ” mr biden ’ s wartim trip take on further signific in hindsight : the start of an attempt to prevent a near unpreced break in the us - israel relationship , which inch closer thi week . on thursday , the day after mr biden announc the weapon shipment paus , mr netanyahu fire back . the prime minist ha long understood that he can ralli hi own base with show of defianc to us pressur . “ if we need to stand alon , we will stand alon . i have said that if necessari we will fight with our fingernail , ” he said . i put mr netanyahu ’ s statement to chri coon , the democrat senat . “ they don ' t need to fight with their fingernail , ” he said . “ they will and should fight with modern weapon system that they have develop in mani case jointli with us , that are provid in mani case by us . ” “ but they should do it in a way that minimis civilian casualti , ” he said .