if you want to map the path to a healthi , function palestinian govern , you probabl wouldn ' t start from here . the last time palestinian had the chanc to vote for their nation leader wa 18 year ago , and those elect spark a civil war in palestinian polit . that isn ' t a metaphor : hama , which won the elect , and fatah , the biggest polit faction , were shoot each other in gaza ' s street . the fight end with hama take control of gaza , and fatah run the occupi west bank through the palestinian author ( pa ) . it wa a polit cold war that last for a gener . that is where thi journey start . the 7 octob hama attack on israel , and the war in gaza , rip that pictur to shred : israel say it is intent on elimin hama as a govern and militari forc in gaza . intern eye have turn toward the pa as the vehicl that might - with enough reform - carri palestinian into a new , unit post - war era . there are mani challeng ahead . the first is credibl . the gaza war might have explod palestinian polit , but one of the few thing it hasn ' t chang is disillusion with the pa , the bodi that the us is bank on to take charg of gaza . it is wide seen as corrupt and ineffici , and - by some - as a secur enforc for the isra govern in the west bank . a poll thi week by the respect palestinian centr for polici and survey research in ramallah suggest that a major of palestinian think the pa should be dissolv . and satisfact with it presid in the west bank , mahmoud abba , wa just 8 % . mr abba ha replac hi prime minist , mohammad shtayyeh , in an effort to signal reform - or `` renew `` as the american govern ha term it . but it ha not realli move the dial . the new prime minist , an economist call mohammad mustafa , ha been task with head a technocrat interim govern , and bring togeth all the palestinian polit faction - includ hama - to find some sort of consensu around a new unifi vision for the futur . and that is the second challeng : uniti . sabri saidam , a senior fatah offici , told me that the resign of the govern wa design to `` open up the floor `` to other faction - like hama - and give them `` the space to reconsid their polit stanc , and their oblig in the futur - and also their role , given the chang that have happen sinc 7 octob `` . `` we have been talk to hama indirectli , '' he said . `` we have restat the import of adher to the [ â €¦ ] two - state solut , '' refer to the idea that isra and palestinian could live side - by - side in separ countri . `` and we have receiv posit sign . '' last month , repres from fatah and hama sat down in moscow with other palestinian faction to discuss a way forward . it wa seen as a posit sign that hama back a statement from that meet , pledg support for the palestin liber organis ( plo ) , an umbrella group for palestinian polit movement that negoti a previou peac deal with israel . but that feelgood moment in moscow wa quickli shatter when hama react furious to the appoint of mr mustafa , accus mahmoud abba of act unilater and take `` empti step `` without nation consensu . `` hama did not react the way we had anticip , '' said sabri saidam , although he believ it follow a familiar pattern of behaviour by the group . `` we hear some posit remark [ from hama ] , but then when it come to practic engag , there ' s alway a setback , '' he told me . `` thi time , thing have to be differ . we don ' t have the luxuri of time to play with word without walk the talk . '' fatah hit back , accus hama of trigger `` a catastroph `` for the palestinian peopl by attack israel on 7 octob ; a catastroph that wa wors , it said , than the displac of hundr of thousand of palestinian in 1948 , when the isra state wa creat . sabri saidam say the parti is now wait to see whether thi incid mark the end of hama talk to the plo , `` or is just a reflect of the chao hama is in `` . it ' s earli day , but so far the `` renew `` of the pa hasn ' t yet deliv either uniti with rival polit faction , or credibl with the palestinian peopl . elect - and a new leader - might help with both . `` it ' s so depress to be 33 - year - old - like i am now - and i haven ' t vote even onc in my countri , '' said arab barghouti , son of the jail polit leader marwan barghouti . `` peopl my age are minist or parliament member in mani other countri , but for us it ' s a dream to vote , '' he told me . `` we need that renew in the whole system - and that can onli happen with elect . '' arab ' s father marwan - current serv five life sentenc for murder in an isra jail - is probabl the most popular figur in palestinian polit . hi support call him the palestinian mandela . he is one of few figur who could potenti unit the differ palestinian faction . and hi name is like to be near the top of the list of palestinian prison that hama would want releas in exchang for free isra hostag held in gaza . but barghouti wa block from a previou prison exchang deal in 2011 , and israel ' s govern ha littl incent to agre to hi releas now . the isra prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , ha proudli declar that he will block the format of a palestinian state and is wide seen as have promot divis between the west bank and gaza as a way of do that . a popular , unifi figur like barghouti - convict of murder isra - is the last person he want lead the palestinian . mahmoud abba also ha much to fear from hi releas . in their poll , the palestinian centr for polici and survey research pit marwan barghouti against both mahmoud abba , and ismail haniyeh from hama . marwan barghouti would win by a mile against either of them , the project suggest . there are other figur who are seen as potenti bridg - maker - moham dahlan is one - but even a unifi figur , or credibl elect , won ' t solv all the problem face palestinian polit . it won ' t , for exampl , solv the problem of what to do with hama . to what extent hama still hold power in gaza , after more than five month of war , is complic and difficult to assess . there have been report of law and order break down , and of arm gang link to gaza ' s big famili compet for resourc . but hama fighter are still confront isra forc across the gaza strip , most of it top leadership still appear to be free , and israel say sever hama battalion remain intact in the southern border town of rafah . even the civilian committe respons for distribut aid in gaza citi are overwhelmingli affili with hama , one resid said . ani new administr in gaza will need to have at least the tacit support of the group or face ongo friction , or an insurg . the dilemma will be how to give hama a voic - even a discreet one - without trigger resist from influenti outsid power like the us - and , of cours , from israel , which is also tri to veto ani role for the pa in gaza . that dilemma is compound by continu support for hama across both palestinian territori . support spike in the first few month of the war , and now seem to be fall a bit , but a major of those interview by the palestinian centr for polici and survey research said they want hama to run gaza after the war ; onli 11 % want the pa to take charg there . the last time palestinian vote in elect , in 2006 , hama won . the chanc of them be allow to openli run candid in ani new elect are virtual zero - but that doesn ' t chang the mood on the ground . with isra forc still fight their way through gaza , the new shape of palestinian polit is not yet fix . how the war end - and how strong hama remain after it - will be key . the us govern , among other , ha dangl the old familiar prize of a futur palestinian state to encourag both palestinian leader and their arab alli to unit around their vision . but the failur of intern back peac deal - and the institut they creat - are alreadi partli what drive support for arm group like hama . prepar for elect is , sabri saidam believ , the biggest feasibl step to restor faith in palestinian polit . the first prioriti will be reconstruct gaza , he said . `` but my person take is that , onc we engag in reconstruct , it will be extrem help if we set an elect date within a year - and - a - half . and that the world realis we are seriou . '' for the past two decad , sea - chang in palestinian polit have been rare - and sometim violent . despit all thi , arab barghouti is optimist . `` we palestinian don ' t have the privileg of be hopeless , '' he told me . `` if we lose hope , we lose our countri , we lose our land . palestinian need hope . we haven ' t had hope in a veri long time . ''