student have occupi a build at the london school of econom ( lse ) to protest against what they say are the univers ’ s tie with israel . the pro - palestinian activist are call for the central london univers to cut financi tie with the countri over it conduct in it war against hama in gaza . protest encamp have sprung up at univers campus across the uk , us and european countri call for an end to the war . a univers spokesperson told bbc news it prioriti continu to be the `` wellb of the lse commun ” . the activist began their occup of the marshal build , which contain the depart of account , financ and manag on it holborn campu , shortli after hold a ralli outsid on monday afternoon . ethan chua , lse student ’ s union palestin societi member , said the student want to disrupt univers oper until they met their demand which also includ divest from fossil fuel compani . he ad student at the univers had earlier present a report that they say detail link between lse and “ egregi activ ” in israel . “ our main messag to lse manag is a call for divest becaus we refus to keep go to a univers that is materi complicit in the destruct of our planet and the death of palestinian , ” he ad . throughout the conflict the isra govern ha maintain it ha work to minimis civilian casualti in it oper in gaza . while footag of the begin of the occup show hundr of protest gather insid the marshal build , mr chua said thi had now reduc to about 50 and that they intend to remain until their demand were met . he ad they had come to an agreement with the campu ’ secur team to allow student with id to maintain access to the build dure the demonstr . an lse spokesperson said : “ follow a ralli on the lse campu , some protest enter and occupi part of the ground floor of the lse marshal build , highlight a rang of demand relat to invest . '' we will care consid the report submit by the protest group and respond in due cours . we will also continu to engag in a peac dialogu . '' they ad exam due to take place in other build on the campu remain unaffect by the protest . meanwhil , student at the school of orient and african studi ( soa ) are call for their univers to cut associ with busi that fund militari weapon as well as sever tie with haifa univers in israel . a spokesperson for soa said protest could take place `` as long as it remain peac `` and it wa `` commit to divest `` from ani compani that `` break the principl of it ethic invest polici `` . the soa jewish societi said in a social media post that it stood `` shoulder to shoulder with our classmat and colleagu at the soa liber zone for gaza `` . edward isaac , the union of jewish student ' presid , said : `` when the speech becom unlaw and when there is an environ on campu which becom toxic and hate for jewish student , then that [ should be ] stamp out becaus jewish student deserv to be abl to studi safe and feel includ on campu . ” listen to the best of bbc radio london on sound and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your stori idea to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk