turkey ha suspend all trade with israel over it offens in gaza , cite the `` worsen humanitarian tragedi `` in the strip . the turkish trade ministri said the measur would be in place until israel allow an `` uninterrupt and suffici flow `` of aid into gaza . trade between the two countri wa worth almost $ 7bn ( £ 5 . 6bn ) last year . israel ' s foreign minist accus turkish presid recep tayyip erdogan of act like a `` dictat `` . israel katz said on x that mr erdogan wa `` disregard the interest of the turkish peopl and businessmen and ignor intern trade agreement `` . he ad that he had instruct the foreign ministri to find altern for trade with turkey , with a focu on local product and import from other countri . the ministri also say it will also take action to reduc econom connect between turkey and the palestinian author and gaza , the bbc understand . turkish trade minist omer bolat criticis israel ' s `` uncompromis attitud `` toward a ceasefir , as well as the humanitarian situat in the southern gaza citi of rafah : `` turkey ha suspend all export and import with israel until a perman ceasefir is establish and the aid into the gaza is allow without ani interrupt . '' in 1949 , turkey wa the first muslim - major countri to recognis israel . but relat have worsen in recent decad . in 2010 , turkey broke off diplomat tie with israel after 10 pro - palestinian turkish activist were kill in clash with isra commando who board a turkish - own ship tri to break israel ' s maritim blockad of the gaza strip . relat were restor in 2016 , but both countri expel each other ' s top diplomat two year later in a disput over israel ' s kill of palestinian amid protest on the gaza - israel border . mr erdogan ha becom increasingli strident in hi critic of israel sinc the deadli hama attack on israel on 7 octob last year . he ha repeatedli criticis isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu , compar him to adolf hitler , benito mussolini and joseph stalin and dub him `` the butcher of gaza `` . mr netanyahu ha said turkey ' s leader is the last person who can preach moral to israel . in march he said presid erdogan `` support the mass murder and rapist of hama , deni the armenian genocid [ and ] massacr kurd in hi own countri `` . the turkish leader ha for month come under domest polit pressur to announc measur against israel , from both oppon and alli . hi rule ak parti suffer it worst defeat in two decad in local elect at the end of march , and mani religi voter support the islamist new welfar parti , which had call for hardlin measur against israel . not long after the vote , turkey impos restrict on 54 product be export to israel , from iron and steel to jet fuel , pesticid and construct equip . the trade ministri in ankara said on thursday that the action wa now be extend to all export and import . israel wa turkey ' s 13th biggest export market in 2023 , receiv 2 . 1 % of turkish export last year . turkey wa israel ' s fifth biggest sourc of import last year . israel ha come under increas critic for condit in the gaza strip . a un - back assess said last month that 1 . 1 million peopl were face catastroph hunger and that famin wa immin in northern gaza by may . on thursday , the white hous said a pier built by the us militari to facilit the flow of aid into the territori would be open within day . the us ha publish photo show logist vessel and personnel assembl the float pier from steel segment , next to a us navi ship . howev , the un say a maritim corridor can never be a substitut for deliveri by land , and that land rout are the onli way to bring in the bulk of suppli need . earlier thi week , israel reopen the erez cross into the northern gaza strip for aid convoy , under pressur from it western alli and follow repeat appeal from intern aid organis . howev , jordan said some of it aid lorri were attack by isra settler befor reach the cross . a recent un - back report offer hard statist evid that the humanitarian catastroph in gaza wa turn into a man - made famin . the un ' s most senior human right offici , volker türk , told the bbc that there wa a `` plausibl `` case that israel wa use starvat as a weapon of war in gaza . israel deni limit aid deliveri and ha blame the un for fail to distribut it to those in need insid gaza . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 253 other were taken hostag . more than 34 , 500 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . on wednesday , us secretari of state antoni blinken told israel and hama that `` the time is now `` for a deal to bring about a ceasefir in gaza and free the remain hostag held there . he said a deal wa on the tabl and hama should agre to it . mediat are await a respons from hama to the latest propos . it reportedli involv a 40 - day ceasefir and the releas of more than 30 isra hostag in exchang for mani more palestinian prison .