the eu ha call on intern donor to resum fund to gaza ' s largest un agenc . it come after a review found that israel had not provid evid for it claim that thousand of unrwa staff were member of terror group . sever nation halt fund to the agenc after alleg that some employe took part in the hama attack on israel . the us say it will not restart it aid until unrwa make `` real progress `` . unrwa , which provid healthcar , educ and humanitarian aid to palestinian , employ 13 , 000 peopl in gaza . eu humanitarian chief janez lenarc welcom monday ' s report for `` underlin the agenc ' s signific number of complianc system in place as well as recommend for their further upgrad `` . he call on donor nation to support unrwa , describ it as `` the palestinian refuge ' lifelin `` . thi wa echo by norway ' s foreign minist espen barth eid , who hail countri includ australia , canada , finland , germani , iceland , japan and sweden for alreadi resum their fund . the us , uk , itali , netherland , austria and lithuania have not yet done so . `` in term of our fund of unrwa , that is still suspend , '' white hous secur spokesman john kirbi said on tuesday . `` we ' re gon na have to see real progress here befor that get chang . '' the deputi spokesman of the us state depart , vedant patel , said the govern wa look close at the report , ad `` we of cours continu to support unrwa ' s import work , and it must continu `` . israel ha accus more than 2 , 135 of the agenc ' s staff of be member of hama or palestinian islam jihad - proscrib terror organis in israel , the uk , us and other countri . but the un ' s independ review , led by a former french foreign minist , said israel wa yet to provid `` support evid `` for thi claim . while the report acknowledg unrwa ' s `` robust framework `` , it said it need to do more to improv it neutral , staff vet and transpar . the agenc insist it carri out detail refer check on all employe , and share staff list with israel . isra author suggest the report ignor the sever of the problem , and claim unrwa ha systemat link to hama . the eu ' s plea came as the us humanitarian envoy to gaza , david satterfield , repeat warn that the risk of famin throughout the palestinian territori - especi in the north - wa veri high . the catastroph situat ha been caus by the sieg israel impos after the 7 octob attack . around 500 truck of aid were previous enter gaza each day , but the figur collaps follow the start of the war . israel ha also been accus of slow deliveri by subject truck to complex and arbitrari check , and last month the un ' s top court order it to enabl the unhind flow of aid into gaza . israel ha pledg to gradual increas aid back to pre - war level , and unrwa figur show that on monday 316 truck enter gaza , the highest number sinc the war began . the averag over the previou seven day , howev , wa 190 . mr satterfield said israel need to do everyth possibl to stop a famin and call on more to be done to deliv aid to those in need . so far , more than 34 , 000 palestinian - mostli women and children - have been kill dure israel ' s militari campaign in gaza , accord to the hama - run health ministri . a separ un investig is look at isra alleg that 12 unrwa staff took part in the 7 octob attack on israel , which saw around 1 , 200 peopl kill and about 250 taken hostag . unrwa fire 10 of the 12 accus staff member who were still aliv in the wake of the alleg .