as one of the nation ' s most preemin histor black colleg prepar to host presid joe biden , student say controversi surround hi visit ha overshadow their graduat . mr biden will travel to morehous colleg in atlanta , georgia , on sunday to deliv the school ' s commenc address , a tradit complic by critic over hi handl of the israel - gaza war , which ha spark nationwid colleg protest . the speech ' s audienc and set - a battleground state critic to mr biden ' s re - elect - also bring into focu the loom novemb presidenti elect . morehous , one of 107 histor black colleg and univers ( hbcu ) in the us , and the onli all - male hbcu , offer mr biden a chanc to address young black men - a crucial group of voter whose support for the democrat presid ha erod . while the colleg ha seen a hand of demonstr against the war in gaza , they have not reach the size and scope of other . but frustrat grew in april after student ' concern at protest went unansw and mr biden wa announc as their graduat speaker . some student and faculti call for the presid ' s invit to be rescind . the colleg respond by give student and faculti an opportun to voic concern at forum on campu . but morehous presid david thoma made clear that mr biden would be the speaker . `` it make me feel like it ' s no longer about me , '' said marq riggin , a morehous 2024 graduat who said he ' s not enthusiast about the remark . `` he ' s come here to take pictur with us . '' in a procedur step on thursday , faculti at morehous vote on give mr biden an honorari degre dure sunday ' s graduat . some media report indic opposit among faculti , but ultim they vote in favour of the honorari degre , 50 - 38 . mr riggin is not alon in hi frustrat and distrust of the presid . a 13 may poll from the new york time , the philadelphia inquir and siena colleg that examin swing state found the presid behind with multipl constitu he is court , includ younger voter , voter in georgia and young black voter . black voter are a critic vote bloc for democrat , especi in georgia , where about a third of the popul is black . mr biden won georgia in 2020 by a mere 12 , 000 vote - one of the slimmest state margin in hi victori over former presid donald trump . the white hous ha dismiss recent poll , point instead to low black unemploy . ahead of hi novemb rematch with mr trump , mr biden also is tout student debt cancel , infrastructur invest , and more than $ 16bn in feder fund and invest in hbcu to black voter . steve benjamin , who lead the white hous offic of public engag , told report on thursday he travel to morehous last week to learn from student and faculti `` what they want to hear on their veri special commenc day `` . mr benjamin said mani student want to talk about the middl east , reconnect commun and wealth creation . he ad that the presid believ in free speech and that extend to those who wish to protest at the event . `` i wouldn ' t be oppos to be disrupt , '' said mr riggin , the student . `` it ' s a sloppi mess of polit agenda . '' brycen barn , a morehous graduat senior , said he is support of mr biden ' s visit , but doesn ' t necessarili want it to be a campaign stop . `` i don ' t view it as a necessarili bad thing , '' he said . `` i ' m glad we ' re have a presid [ speak to us ] . i want it to be genuin that he ' s come here , i don ' t want it to be polit . '' meanwhil , mr biden sat for two interview on black radio station , includ one in atlanta where he told listen that mr trump hurt black peopl dure hi time in offic . `` black unemploy , uninsur rate went up under trump , '' mr biden said . `` trump ' s tax plan reinforc discrimin . typic white household got doubl the cut of the typic black household . they botch covid - 19 respons , leav black peopl dead and black - own busi shutter . '' karolin leavitt , a campaign spokesperson for mr trump , counter that mr biden is be forc to buy multimillion - dollar ad to get support from `` what he thought wa hi vote base `` . `` black and hispan voter , like all american , are wors - off now than they were under presid trump - by a lot - and everi poll reflect that realiti , '' ms leavitt told the bbc . `` they have less money and higher price for everyth while be forc to live under a weak presid who put illeg immigr ' interest ahead of their . '' on thursday , mr biden mark the 70th anniversari of brown v board of educ , the histor rule that found school segreg to be unconstitut . derrick johnson , presid of the nation associ for the advanc of color peopl ( naacp ) , dismiss question about mr biden and black voter , say that opinion poll have been wrong in the past . after the commenc , the presid will travel to detroit to address a naacp chapter dinner . former us congressman cedric richmond , a senior advis to the democrat nation committe who organis mr biden ' s visit to morehous , said it will give the presid a chanc to directli address young black peopl . `` student understand how worthi it is or what a big moment it is for a presid to be address their institut , '' mr richmond told the bbc . but if morehous student choos to protest against mr biden , as student have at other graduat across the countri , mr thoma repeatedli ha said he ' ll shut down the ceremoni .