fifa will carri out a legal assess befor it make a decis on whether to agre to palestin ' s call to suspend the isra feder over the war in gaza . the palestinian feder ( pfa ) call for a vote to exclud israel at fifa ' s congress in bangkok on friday , which wa support in the room by the jordanian fa . fifa presid gianni infantino said it wa a matter for the fifa council to make a decis on , follow a legal assess . '' how much more must the palestin footbal famili suffer for fifa to act with the same sever and urgenc as it did in other case ? '' pfa presid jibril rajoub said . '' doe fifa consid some war to be more import than other and some victim to be more signific ? '' i ask you to stand on the right side of histori . the suffer of million , includ thousand of footbal , deserv as much . if not now , then when ? mr presid , the ball is in your court . '' the war in gaza began after a 7 octob hama attack on israel , which kill about 1 , 200 peopl . more than 252 other were taken hostag . more than 34 , 000 peopl have sinc been kill by israel ' s offens in gaza , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say . shino mosh zuar , the presid of the israel footbal associ , said : `` we are face a cynic polit and hostil attempt by the palestinian associ to harm isra footbal . '' seven month after the terribl day , when footbal match can not be play in larg part of israel , north and south , and over 130 isra are still be held in gaza , it is injustic that even in these circumst we find ourselv fight for our basic right to be part of the game . '' infantino said a legal assess of the alleg made by the pfa would be undertaken urgent , with the fifa council conven an extraordinari congress in late juli to address the issu . '' footbal should not and should never becom a hostag for polit and alway remain a vector for peac , a sourc of hope , a forc of good , unit peopl rather than divid , '' infantino said . '' thi legal assess will have to allow for input and claim of both member associ . the result of thi analysi and the recommend which will follow from thi analysi will subsequ be forward to the fifa council . '' infantino ha play down the prospect of legal threat over plan for a 32 - team men ' s club world cup next summer . the world govern bodi face a legal threat from player ' union fifpro and the world leagu associ if it continu with plan to host the tournament . earlier thi month , fifpro and the wla said the global footbal calendar is `` beyond satur `` and that `` player are be push beyond their limit `` . speak at fifa ' s 74th congress infantino said he hope fifpro and the wla should stop thi `` futil debat `` . '' even with the new club world cup of fifa with 32 team and 63 match everi four year , fifa is organis around 1 % of the game of the top club in the world , '' he said . '' all other match , 98 , 99 % , are organis by the differ leagu , associ , confeder , by all of you , - and that ' s good . '' but here come the thing - the one or two per cent of match that fifa organis is financ footbal all over the world . '' manchest citi and chelsea are among the 12 european repres at the expand club world cup , to be held in the usa between 13 june and 15 juli 2025 . '' the revenu that we gener are not just go to a few club in one countri . the revenu that we gener are go to 211 countri all over the world . '' there is no other organis that doe that . so i hope these figur - which you can of cours check and calcul - should probabl stop thi futil debat which is realli pointless . '' infantino said 70 % of fifa ' s member associ `` would have no footbal `` without without the govern bodi ' s resourc .