hezbollah rocket have spark day of bushfir in northern israel , with swath of forest reserv destroy and 11 peopl hospitalis for smoke inhal . patch of scorch earth start to appear half an hour out from the lebanon border , plume of grey smoke map the rout to either side across the hill . local resid in israel ’ s larg - desert northern commun , have been battl scatter fire for sever week . one member of a civil defenc team said there had been 15 - 16 fire in the area sinc then . but high temperatur over the past few day have led to a sharp increas . firefight on monday battl for 20 hour to put out fire around the town of kiryat shmona . the fire – which forest administr say have so far burn through 3 , 500 acr of land – are fuell fresh demand that israel ’ s govern take step to end the escal conflict with hezbollah on it northern front . israel ’ s war cabinet wa due to meet on tuesday even to discuss the worsen secur situat along it northern border . israel and hezbollah have been trade cross - border fire on a near daili basi sinc last octob and recent week have seen an escal in the intens of attack . resid of one kibbutz said the hezbollah rocket attack were “ definit ” link to israel ’ s action in gaza , and that sinc the isra militari ' s ground oper in the southern gaza citi of rafah began , three or four rocket were fli over their hous everi day . ten of thousand of resid , evacu from the area after the hama attack on israel , are still wait to return to their home . but govern deadlin to secur these area keep slip . mani of these displac resid see a ceasefir in gaza as the key to calm the situat in the north . but israel ’ s far - right secur minist , itamar ben - gvir , visit firefight in the nearbi town of kiryat shmona today , said the govern ’ s respons to hezbollah ’ s rocket should be war . “ no peac in lebanon while our land is be target , ” he said . herzl halevi , israel ’ s armi chief of staff , also visit the region , said the countri wa “ approach the point where a decis will have to be made . ” the israel defenc forc , he said , wa “ prepar and readi to move to an offens . ” hezbollah ’ s deputi chief , sheikh naim qassem , told al - jazeera that the group wa not seek to widen the conflict with israel but that ani isra expans of the war would be met “ with devast ” . the govern ha been keen to contain thi conflict on it northern border , awar that hezbollah is a better - train and better - equip enemi than hama – and that fight here would be a veri differ kind of war . but the fire have put thi grind forgotten conflict squar on the front page of nation newspap , and israel ’ s prime minist benjamin netanyahu is under fresh pressur to act . he and hama leader yahya sinwar in gaza are alreadi at the centr of delic negoti over a potenti ceasefir and hostag exchang deal in gaza , which us presid joe biden is push both side to accept . gaza ceasefir plan turn into deadli game of surviv