a palestinian man ha been kill in the occupi west bank and 25 are report hurt after dozen of jewish settler storm a villag dure an isra search for a miss teenag . isra troop interven after dozen of settler storm al - mughayyir arm with gun and stone . it is not yet clear whether the man who die , jehad abu alia , 26 , wa shot by an arm settler or isra soldier . the palestinian red crescent said live fire hit at least eight peopl . miss benjamin ahimeir , 14 , ha not been found . a huge search is under way . local media said the circumst around the teenag ' s disappear were still unknown and the militari wa not sure if the incid wa terror - relat . troop have set up roadblock in the area . isra media report that benjamin achimeir had left `` gal farm `` in the settler outpost of malachei shalom earli on friday , and had not been seen sinc . he had been graze sheep , and the sheep return to the farm without him , polic said . hi sister hannah , quot by afp news agenc , said he wa familiar with the area . separ , isra forc shot and kill two west bank palestinian . one wa confirm by hama to be a local command of the group . the isra militari say moham daraghmeh wa kill in a shoot - out with their troop . there ha been a surg in violenc in the west bank sinc the start of the war in the gaza strip , trigger by hama ' s deadli attack in israel on 7 octob , which kill some 1 , 200 peopl , mostli civilian . at al - mughayyir , video post on x by an isra human right group , yesh din , show dark cloud of smoke billow from burn car next to an oliv orchard , as gunshot are heard . social media pictur also show what appear to be a crowd of mask settler . the father of jehad abu alia , the 26 - year - old who wa shot , spoke from a hospit in ramallah , where jehad ' s bodi had been taken . `` my son went with other to defend our land and honour , and thi is what happen , '' afif abu alia said . the idf say it troop , and not settler , open fire at stone - throw palestinian as `` violent disturb erupt at sever point in the area `` . troop manag to remov the settler who had enter the villag , it said . `` as of thi moment , the violent riot have been dispers and there are no isra civilian present within the town , '' the idf said . the palestinian prime minist , mohammad mustafa , ha condemn the attack . foreign govern includ israel ' s closest alli , the us , have repeatedli rais concern over a surg in settler violenc against palestinian in the west bank sinc israel began it militari campaign against hama in gaza . israel ha built about 160 settlement hous some 700 , 000 jew sinc it occupi west bank and east jerusalem in the 1967 middl east war . the intern commun consid the settlement illeg , though israel disput thi . the palestinian health ministri say at least 460 palestinian have been kill by isra forc or settler in the west bank sinc 7 octob . isra sourc say at least 13 isra have been kill there by palestinian in the same period . the surg in west bank violenc ha prompt the us , uk and franc to impos sanction on some settler for the first time . but the casualti there are dwarf by the gaza war : more than 33 , 600 gazan , the major of them civilian , have been kill dure israel ' s campaign , the hama - run health ministri say . on 7 octob gunmen also took more than 250 peopl hostag . israel say that of 130 hostag still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . the latest violenc come as israel remain on high alert after us offici warn of an immin iranian strike against israel . iran ha vow to retali for last week ' s deadli air strike on an iranian diplomat compound in syria , in which sever senior iranian militari figur die . israel ha not comment but is wide consid to have carri out that attack target the elit qud forc of iran ' s revolutionari guard corp .