evacu warn issu by israel to peopl in gaza ahead of attack have contain a host of signific error , bbc analysi ha reveal . warn contain contradictori inform and sometim misnam district . thi made them confus to gazan seek safeti . expert say such mistak could violat israel ' s intern law oblig . the israel defens forc ( idf ) ha reject ani assert the warn were confus or contradictori . in a statement , it said the alert analys by the bbc were onli one element of it `` extens effort to encourag the evacu [ of ] civilian out of harm ' s way `` . intern humanitarian law requir attack forc to give effect advanc warn of attack which may affect the civilian popul , unless circumst do not permit . israel say it warn system is design to help civilian flee danger as it continu it war against hama . the system divid a map of gaza into hundr of number block . israel ha produc an interact onlin map of the block that geo - locat user , show their live locat and which block number they are in . thi idf post from late januari show a social media post on x with a link through via qr code to the master block map . but peopl we spoke to have describ struggl to get onlin to access the system , as well as find the block system difficult to understand , notwithstand the error . the bbc analys the idf ' s arab languag social media channel on facebook , x and telegram , where we found hundr of post contain warn . the same warn were often post repeatedli . we also search for leaflet warn which had been photograph and share onlin . the idf say it ha drop 16 million such leaflet over gaza . we have focus our analysi on warn issu sinc 1 decemb , which is when the idf launch it block system as a way of provid more precis instruct than previous , after come under intern pressur . we group all of the idf ' s post and leaflet that we found after thi date into 26 separ warn . the vast major made refer to the master block system . the idf told the bbc it also warn of impend attack through pre - record phone messag and live phone call . due to damag to gaza ' s phone network we have not been abl to compil data on these phone call . and our analysi of leaflet wa limit to those we could find photograph and share onlin . the 26 separ warn we found contain specif inform from the idf that peopl could use to escap area of danger . but 17 of them also contain error and inconsist . these includ : in addit , one warn list neighbourhood as be in one district when they were actual in anoth . anoth mix up the block number of two neighbourhood . and in a third , some block list in the text were on the opposit side of gaza to those highlight on the accompani map . when we put these error to the idf , it did not respond to the issu we rais with the map specif but said the text of post had been suffici clear . it also said that when arrow were use to direct peopl to safeti , `` it is obviou that the arrow point to a gener direct `` and reiter that the key inform had been provid in the text . these inaccuraci and error may violat israel ' s oblig under intern law to provid `` effect advanc warn `` , say janina dill , co - director of the oxford institut of ethic , law and arm conflict . if the major of warn contain error or are unclear to the point that civilian can ' t understand them then , she say , `` these warn do not fulfil the proper function they have under intern humanitarian law `` . thi , add kubo macak professor of intern law at the univers of exet , undermin their function to give `` civilian the chanc to protect themselv `` . in decemb , saleh , a tech entrepreneur from gaza citi , wa shelter with hi children and hi in - law in nuseirat in central gaza - where , he say , there wa no electr or phone signal and long period of internet outag . he saw peopl kill and other flee from a nearbi school as it wa be shell , but say he had not receiv ani idf evacu detail . eventu , he found someon with a sim card that allow him to access data network in egypt and israel and came across an evacu warn on an isra govern facebook page . `` there wa an evacu order for sever residenti block - [ but ] we didn ' t know which block we live in . thi led to a big argument , '' salah say . salah could onli access the internet intermitt , but he messag hi wife amani , who ha been in the uk sinc just befor the war . she wa abl to go onlin and access the idf ' s master block map and pinpoint where her husband wa . but then , look back at the specif evacu warn on facebook , the coupl realis the number block where salah wa stay wa shown cut in two - ad to the famili ' s confus . eventu , salah decid to leav with the children . but some of hi famili stay put - until fight escal further . when the bbc analys the facebook evacu warn salah had been tri to deciph , we found further point of confus . in text , the post urg peopl to leav block 2220 , 2221 , 2222 , 2223 , 2224 and 2225 - all block that appear in the idf ' s onlin master map . but in the accompani map , the six number block had been lump into one , and mislabel as block 2220 . despit these inconsist , israel present it block warn system at the intern court of justic in januari as part of it defenc against alleg by south africa that it is commit genocid . israel ' s lawyer argu that it wa do it utmost to protect civilian and had `` develop a detail map so that specif area can be temporarili evacu , instead of evacu entir area `` . they present one social media warn in court as evid - but the bbc ha found two error in it . block 55 and 99 were list in the text of the post from 13 decemb but they were not shade on the map . the idf told the bbc that when a block number is explicitli mention in text , the warn is suffici clear . israel ' s lawyer also claim that the idf , via it arab twitter account , wa provid inform on the locat of shelter close to area be evacu . but in all of the post and leaflet we analys we did not see ani warn provid name or exact locat of shelter . bbc analysi ha also found the idf ' s block system overal wa use inconsist . nine of the 26 warn list a mix of block number and neighbourhood name . anoth nine didn ' t mention block number at all . despit link through to the onlin master map , they instead list neighbourhood by name - which often sprawl over mani number block . the bbc could not find a way to determin the exact block of these neighbourhood . the abdu famili , which includ 32 peopl , also fled gaza citi to central gaza earli in the war . then , in decemb , they receiv a warn leaflet drop from a plane . messag on the famili whatsapp group , which the bbc ha seen , chart their confus as they argu for two day over what the leaflet meant . it contain a list of neighbourhood to evacu , but the famili couldn ' t locat most of these place . the warn ask peopl to leav `` al - bureij camp and the neighbourhood of badr , the north coast , al - nuzha , al - zahra , al - buraq , al - rawda , and al - safa in the area south of wadi gaza . '' we locat an al - zahra and a badr close by , but they are north of the wadi gaza riverb . we could not find the neighbourhood of al - rawda or al - nuzha in the `` area south of wadi gaza `` . the abdu famili struggl to decid what to do . should they stay and risk get caught up in a fierc ground battl - or leav , and abandon the onli shelter they might find ? some follow the warn to go to `` shelter in deir al - balah `` . but when they arriv they felt unsaf and decid to return . if they were go to die they would die togeth , they told us . satellit data on destruct in gaza - analys by jamon van den hoek at oregon state univers and corey scher of citi univers new york graduat center - show that the area of deir al - balah that the famili fled to came under more intens attack dure thi period than the area that they had left . the idf told us it had cross - check `` data regard civilian presenc and movement that follow these warn `` and that mani peopl did receiv and follow them . it said that warn had `` save countless civilian live in the gaza strip `` .