medic worker in israel have told the bbc that palestinian detaine from gaza are routin kept shackl to hospit bed , blindfold , sometim nake , and forc to wear nappi – a practic one medic said amount to “ tortur ” . a whistl - blower detail how procedur in one militari hospit were “ routin ” carri out without painkil , caus “ an unaccept amount of pain ” to detaine . anoth whistl - blower said painkil were use “ select ” and “ in a veri limit way ” dure an invas medic procedur on a gazan detaine in a public hospit . he also said critic ill patient be held in makeshift militari facil were be deni proper treatment becaus of a reluct by public hospit to transfer and treat them . one detaine , taken from gaza for question by the isra armi and later releas , told the bbc hi leg had to be amput becaus he wa deni treatment for an infect wound . a senior doctor work insid the militari hospit at the centr of the alleg deni that ani amput were the direct result of condit there , but describ the shackl and other restraint use by guard as “ dehumanis ” . the isra armi said detaine at the facil were treat “ appropri and care ” . the two whistl - blower the bbc spoke to were both in posit to assess the medic treatment of detaine . both ask to remain anonym becaus of the sensit of the issu among their colleagu . their account are support by a report , publish in februari by physician for human right in israel , which said that israel ’ s civilian and militari prison had becom “ an apparatu of retribut and reveng ” and that detaine ’ human right were be violat - in particular their right to health . concern over the treatment of sick and injur detaine have centr on a militari field hospit , at the sde teiman militari base in southern israel . the field hospit wa set up by israel ’ s health ministri after the hama attack specif to treat gazan detaine , after some public hospit and staff express a reluct to treat fighter captur on the day of the hama attack . sinc then , isra forc have round up larg number of peopl from gaza and taken them to base like sde teiman for interrog . those suspect of fight for hama are sent to isra detent centr ; mani other are releas back to gaza without charg . the armi doe not publish detail of the detaine it is hold . patient at the sde teiman hospit are kept blindfold and perman shackl to their bed by all four limb , accord to sever medic respons for treat patient there . they are also made to wear nappi , rather than use a toilet . israel ’ s armi said in respons that handcuf of detaine in the sde teiman hospit wa “ examin individu and daili , and carri out in case where the secur risk requir it ” . it said that nappi [ diaper ] were use “ onli for detaine who have undergon medic procedur for which their movement is limit ” . but wit , includ the facil ’ s senior anaesthiologist , yoel donchin , say both the use of nappi and handcuff are univers in the hospit ward . “ the armi creat the patient to be 100 % depend , like a babi , ” he said . “ you are cuf , you are with diaper , you need water , you need everyth – it ’ s dehumanis ” . dr donchin said there wa no individu assess of the need for restraint , and that even those patient who were unabl to walk – for exampl , those with leg amput – were handcuf to the bed . he describ the practic as “ stupid ” . two wit at the facil in the earli week of the gaza war told us that patient there were kept nake under the blanket . one doctor with knowledg of condit there said prolong cuf to bed would caus “ huge suffer , horribl suffer ” , describ it as “ tortur ” and say patient would start to feel pain after a few hour . other have spoken of the risk of long - term nerv - damag . footag of gazan detaine releas after interrog show injuri and scar around their wrist and leg . last month , israel ’ s daili haaretz newspap publish alleg made by a doctor at the sde teiman site that leg amput had been carri out on two prison , becaus of cuf injuri . the alleg were made , the paper said , in a privat letter sent by the doctor to govern minist and the attorney - gener , in which such amput were describ as “ unfortun a routin event ” . the bbc ha not been abl to independ verifi thi alleg . dr donchin said that amput were not the direct result of cuf and had involv other factor – such as infect , diabet or problem with blood vessel . isra medic guidelin stipul that no patient should be restrain unless there is a specif secur reason for do so , and that the minimum level of restraint should be use . the head of the countri ’ s medic ethic board , yossi walfisch , after a visit to the site , said all patient had a right to be treat without be handcuf , but that the safeti of staff prevail over other ethic consider . “ terrorist are given proper medic treatment , ” he said in a publish letter , “ with the aim of keep restraint to a minimum and while maintain the safeti of the treat staff . ” mani gazan detain by israel ’ s armi are releas without charg after interrog . dr donchin said complaint from medic staff at the sde teiman militari hospit had led to chang , includ a shift to looser handcuff . he said he insist on guard remov restraint befor ani surgic procedur . “ it ’ s not pleasant to work there , ” he said . “ i know it ’ s against the ethic code to treat someon cuf in the bed . but what ’ s the altern ? is it better to let them die ? i don ’ t think so . ” but report suggest the attitud of medic staff toward detaine vari wide , in both militari and civilian hospit . a whistl - blower who work at the sde teiman field hospit back in octob , shortli after the hama attack on israel , describ case of patient be given inadequ amount of painkil , includ anaesthet . he said a doctor onc refus hi request that an elderli patient be given painkil while they were open up a recent , infect amput wound . “ [ the patient ] start trembl from pain , and so i stop and say ‘ we can ’ t go on , you need to give him analgesia ’ , ” he said . the doctor told him it wa too late to administ it . the wit said such procedur were “ routin done without analgesia ” result in “ an unaccept amount of pain ” . on anoth occas , he wa ask by a suspect hama fighter to interced with the surgic team to increas the level of morphin and anaesthet dure repeat surgeri . the messag wa pass on , but the suspect again regain conscious dure the next oper and wa in a lot of pain . the wit said both he and other colleagu felt there wa a sens in which it had been a deliber act of reveng . the armi said in respons to these alleg that violenc against detaine wa “ absolut prohibit ” , and that it regularli brief it forc on the conduct requir of them . ani concret detail of violenc or humili would be examin , it said . a second whistl - blower said the situat at sde teiman wa onli part of the problem , which extend into public hospit . the bbc is call him “ yoni ” to protect hi ident . in the day that follow the 7 octob attack , he said , hospit in southern israel were face with the challeng of treat both wound fighter and wound victim , often in the same emerg depart . hama gunmen had just attack isra commun along the border fenc with gaza , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and kidnap some 250 other . “ the atmospher wa extrem emot , ” yoni said . “ hospit were complet overwhelm , both psycholog and in term of capac . ” “ there were instanc where i heard staff discuss whether detaine from gaza should get painkil . or way to perform certain procedur that can turn the treatment into punish . ” convers like thi were not uncommon , he said , even if actual instanc appear veri rare . “ i have knowledg of one case where painkil were use select , in a veri limit way , dure a procedur , ” he told the bbc . “ the patient did not receiv ani explan of what wa go on . so , if you put togeth [ that ] someon is undergo an invas procedur , which involv even incis , and doesn ’ t know about that , and is blindfold , then the line between treatment and assault thin out . ” we ask the health ministri to respond to these alleg , but they direct us to the idf . yoni also said that the sde teiman field hospit wa not equip to treat sever injur patient , but that some of those held there in the earli month of the war had fresh gunshot wound to the chest and abdomen . he said at least one critic ill man wa kept there becaus of a reluct by public hospit to accept hi transfer for treatment , ad that doctor at the base were “ frustrat ” by the situat . sufian abu salah , a 43 - year - old taxi driver from khan youi , wa one of dozen of men detain dure raid by israel ' s armi and taken to a militari base for question . he said soldier carri out sever beat dure the journey and also on arriv at the base , where he wa deni treatment for a minor wound on hi foot , which then becam infect . “ my leg got infect and turn blue , and as soft as a spong , ” he told the bbc . after a week , he said , the guard took him to hospit , beat him on hi injur leg on the way . two oper to clean hi wound did not work , he told the bbc . “ afterward , they took me to a public hospit , where the doctor gave me two option : my leg or my life . ” he chose hi life . after they amput hi leg , he wa sent back to the militari base , and later releas back to gaza . `` thi period wa mental and physic tortur , ” he said . “ i can ’ t describ it . i wa detain with two leg and now i have onli one . everi now and then , i cri . ” the idf did not respond to the specif alleg about sufian ’ s treatment , but said the claim of violenc toward him dure hi arrest or detent “ were unknown and will be examin ” . in the day after the 7 octob attack , israel ’ s health ministri issu a direct that all gazan detaine should be treat in militari or prison hospit , with the sde teiman field hospit creat specif to fill thi role . the decis won the back of mani in israel ’ s medic establish , with yossi walfisch , prais it as the solut to “ an ethic dilemma ” , which would remov respons for treat “ hama terrorist ” from the public health system . other have call for the closur of sde teiman , describ the situat there as “ an unpreced low point for the medic profess , and medic ethic . ” “ my fear is that what we ’ re do in sde teiman won ’ t allow a return to the way it wa befor , ” one doctor told the bbc . “ becaus thing that look unreason to us befor , will look reason when thi crisi is over . ” yoel donchin , the anaesthesiologist , said medic staff at the field hospit sometim gather togeth to cri over the situat there . “ the moment our hospit close , ” he said , “ we ’ ll celebr . ” addit report by : naomi scherbel - ball , gidi kleiman , aisha kherallah