world central kitchen is to resum distribut food in gaza , nearli a month after seven of it aid worker were kill in an isra air strike . the aid organis said it ha 276 truck with eight million meal readi to enter through the rafah cross . `` ultim , we decid we must keep feed , '' the chariti said on sunday . earlier thi month , the chariti said a convoy leav a warehous wa attack by israel kill seven and spark an intern outcri . the israel defens forc admit `` grave mistak `` led to the fatal strike against the worker and dismiss two senior offic over the incid . in a statement on sunday , wck ceo erin gore said : `` the humanitarian situat in gaza remain dire . `` we are restart our oper with the same energi , digniti , and focu on feed as mani peopl as possibl . '' the chariti said it will also send truck from jordan and use the ashdod port , one of israel ' s three main cargo port , as well as build a third high product kitchen in gaza . speak on the fatal airstrik , the chariti said it wa continu to call for an imparti and intern investig into the death of the aid worker , which includ three briton , a palestinian , australian , pole and us - canadian citizen . `` while we have no concret assur , we continu to seek answer and advoc for chang with the goal of better protect wck and all ngo worker serv selflessli in the worst humanitarian condit , '' ms gore said . wck is one of the main supplier of desper - need aid into gaza and say it ha suppli more than 43 million meal in gaza sinc the war start in octob . talk about the decis to resum oper , ms gore ad : `` we decid that we must keep feed , continu our mission of show up to provid food to peopl dure the toughest of time . '' in the space of four minut on 1 april , the seven aid worker were kill when three missil destroy their car one by one as they engag in humanitarian work . the chariti ' s team had been authoris by the isra militari to help transfer aid suppli from the coast to a warehous . the idf said a seri of mistak and miscommun result in them be mistaken for hama oper and target . israel ' s militari said a `` number of arm gunmen `` were in the vicin of the convoy , but drone oper wrongli track car carri aid worker . the armi apologis after admit it soldier did not follow protocol and were not given crucial inform about the pre - approv aid mission . the wck announc come as isra ' s militari said the amount of aid go into gaza will be ramp up in the come day to help . spokesperson rear adm daniel hagari said in a statement : `` food , water , medic suppli , shelter equip and other aid - more of it is go into gaza than ever befor . '' israel is also work with us central command to construct a `` temporari maritim pier , '' which will allow ship - to - shore distribut , he ad . the un ha warn that famin in the gaza strip is `` almost inevit `` and children are starv to death . the current war began when hama attack isra commun near gaza , kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mainli civilian , and take about 250 hostag . israel ' s subsequ campaign of aerial bombard and ground oper in gaza ha kill 34 , 454 peopl , mostli civilian , accord to the hama - run health ministri there .