ten of thousand of isra have ralli against isra pm benjamin netanyahu , demand a gaza hostag deal . the ralli in tel aviv and other citi came after the isra defens forc ( idf ) recov the bodi of hostag elad katzir . protest chant `` elect now `` , and `` elad , we ' re sorri `` , local media report . later , polic forcibl dispers the tel aviv crowd . anti - govern protest were join by famili of hostag held in gaza . demonstr express their frustrat with the govern ' s inabl to free the around 130 hostag who remain in gaza , held by hama and it alli . earlier on saturday the idf recov the bodi of elad katzir , who wa seiz and taken to gaza dure the hama attack on southern israel on 7 octob . he appear aliv in a hostag video releas in januari . `` elad katzir manag to surviv three month in captiv . he should have been with us today . he could have been with us today , '' protest noam peri told a bbc report . organis said the protest in tel aviv had drawn 100 , 000 peopl , while other count put attend at around 45 , 000 . the demonstr were the latest of a seri of huge anti - govern protest demand that prime minist netanyahu step down , amid furi that he ha fail to free the remain hostag . a car plough into crowd at the protest in tel aviv , injur five . polic said the driver wa arrest . some polit leader denounc the appar ram attack . war cabinet member benni gantz call it `` horrif `` . on sunday - exactli six month sinc the hama attack trigger the war in gaza - negoti plan to meet in cairo to attempt to reach a ceasefir in the brutal war . accord to some media report , cia director bill burn and qatari prime minist moham bin abdulrahman al thani will join negoti from egypt , israel and hama . mr katzir ' s sister , carmit palti katzir , blame isra author for her brother ' s death in a post on social media , say he would have return aliv had they agre a new truce deal . `` our leadership is cowardli and driven by polit consider , which is whi thi deal ha not happen yet , '' she wrote on facebook . `` prime minist , war cabinet , and coalit member : look at yourself in the mirror and say if your hand didn ' t spill blood . '' the 7 octob hama attack kill about 1 , 200 peopl , most of them civilian . over 33 , 000 peopl have been kill dure israel ' s offens in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say - mani of them women and children . accord to isra count , 253 isra and foreign were taken dure the hama attack . about 129 hostag remain unaccount for after be kidnap . at least 34 of them are presum dead . 12 bodi have been recov by the idf . israel give a slightli higher offici figur becaus it includ four peopl taken hostag in 2014 and 2015 . two of these are believ to have die .