western govern are come under grow pressur to halt arm sale to israel over how it is wage the war against hama in the gaza strip . israel is a major weapon export , but it militari ha been heavili reliant on import aircraft , guid bomb and missil to conduct what expert have describ as one of the most intens and destruct aerial campaign in recent histori . campaign group and some politician among israel ' s western alli say arm export should be suspend becaus , they say , israel is fail to do enough to protect the live of civilian and ensur enough humanitarian aid reach them . on friday , the un human right council back a weapon ban , with 28 countri vote in favour , six against and 13 abstent . the us and germani - which account for the vast major of israel ' s arm import - both vote against . germani said it did so becaus the resolut did not explicitli condemn hama . the war wa trigger by hama ' s attack on israel on 7 octob , which kill about 1 , 200 peopl , mainli civilian , accord isra talli . more than 33 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza , 70 % of them children and women , the hama - run health ministri say . israel insist that it forc are work to avoid civilian casualti , accus hama of deliber put civilian in the line of fire and ha said there are no limit on aid deliveri . the us is by far the biggest supplier of arm to israel , have help it build one of the most technolog sophist militari in the world . accord to the stockholm intern peac research institut ( sipri ) , the us account for 69 % of israel ' s import of major convent arm between 2019 and 2023 . the us provid israel with $ 3 . 8bn ( £ 3bn ) in annual militari aid under a 10 - year agreement that is intend to allow it alli to maintain what it call a `` qualit militari edg `` over neighbour countri . israel ha use the grant to financ order of f - 35 joint strike fighter , a stealth aircraft consid the most advanc ever made . it ha so far order 75 and taken deliveri of more than 30 of the aircraft . it wa the first countri other than the us to receiv an f - 35 and the first to use one in combat . part of the aid - $ 500m annual - is set asid to fund missil defenc programm , includ the jointli develop iron dome , arrow and david ' s sling system . israel ha reli on them dure the war to defend itself against rocket , missil and drone attack by palestinian arm group in gaza , as well as other iran - back arm group base in lebanon , syria , iraq and yemen . in the day after hama ' s 7 octob attack , presid joe biden said the us wa `` surg addit militari assist `` to israel . sinc the start of the war , onli two us militari sale to israel have been made public after receiv emerg approv - one for 14 , 000 round of tank ammunit worth $ 106m and the other for $ 147m of compon to make 155mm artilleri shell . but us media report that presid joe biden ' s administr ha also quietli made more than 100 militari sale to israel , most fall below the dollar amount that would requir congress to be formal notifi . they are said to includ thousand of precis - guid munit , small - diamet bomb , bunker buster and small arm . howev , sipri ' s report say that despit the deliveri , the total volum of isra arm import from the us in 2023 wa almost the same as in 2022 . one deal that is larg enough to requir congression notif is the $ 18bn sale of up to 50 f - 15 fighter jet , news about which emerg thi week . congress ha not yet approv the deal . even though the aircraft would need to be built from scratch and would not be deliv immedi , the sale is expect to be hotli debat by mr biden ' s democrat parti , mani of whose repres in congress and support are increasingli concern by israel ' s action in gaza . senat elizabeth warren ha said she is prepar to block the deal and ha accus israel of `` indiscrimin bomb `` in gaza . germani is the next biggest arm export to israel , account for 30 % of import between 2019 and 2023 , accord to sipri . in 2023 , the european nation ' s weapon sale to israel were worth € 326 . 5m ( $ 351m ; £ 280m ) - a 10 - fold increas compar with 2022 - with the major of those export licenc grant after the 7 octob attack . the german govern said in januari that the sale compris € 306 . 4m worth of militari equip and € 20 . 1m of `` war weapon `` . accord to the dpa news agenc , the latter includ 3 , 000 portabl anti - tank weapon and 500 , 000 round of ammunit for automat or semi - automat firearm . it also said that most of the export licenc were grant for land vehicl and technolog for the develop , assembl , mainten and repair of weapon . chancellor olaf scholz ha been a staunch support of israel ' s right to self - defenc throughout the war and , although hi tone on isra action in gaza ha shift in recent week and there ha been some debat in germani , the arm sale do not appear to be at risk of suspens . itali is the third - biggest arm export to israel , but it account for onli 0 . 9 % of isra import between 2019 and 2023 . they have reportedli includ helicopt and naval artilleri . sale of `` arm and munit `` amount to € 13 . 7m ( $ 14 . 8m ; £ 11 . 7m ) last year , the magazin altreconomia cite nation statist bureau istat as say . some € 2 . 1m of export were approv between octob and decemb , despit the govern ' s assur that it wa block them under a law which ban weapon sale to countri that are wage war or are deem to be violat human right . defenc minist guido crosetto told parliament last month that itali had honour exist contract after check them on a case - by - case basi and ensur `` they did not concern materi that could be use against civilian `` . the uk ' s export of militari good to israel are `` rel small `` , accord to the uk govern , amount to onli £ 42m ( $ 53m ) in 2022 . the campaign against arm trade ( caat ) say that sinc 2008 , the uk ha grant arm export licenc to israel worth £ 574m ( $ 727m ) in total . much of those are for compon use in us - made warplan that end up in israel . but the british govern is come under grow pressur to suspend even those export . prime minist rishi sunak ha said the uk ha a `` veri care export licens regim `` and said israel must `` act in accord with intern humanitarian law `` . the uk govern is also prepar an assess that will advis on the risk of israel breach intern law in it action from earli 2024 . but a senior govern sourc told the bbc that an arm embargo on israel wa `` not go to happen `` . the govern of canada , whose arm sale to israel were worth 21 . 3m canadian dollar ( $ 15 . 7m ; £ 12 . 4m ) in 2022 , said in januari that it had suspend approv new exit permit for weapon until it could ensur they were be use in accord with canadian law . howev , pre - exist permit remain valid . israel ha also built up it own defenc industri with us help and now rank as the ninth - largest arm export in the world , with a focu on advanc technolog product rather than larg - scale hardwar . it held a 2 . 3 % share of global sale between 2019 and 2023 , accord to sipri , with india ( 37 % ) , the philippin ( 12 % ) and the us ( 8 . 7 % ) the three main recipi . the sale were worth $ 12 . 5bn ( £ 9 . 9bn ) in 2022 , accord to the isra defenc ministri . unman aerial vehicl ( uav ) made up 25 % of those export , follow by missil , rocket and air defenc system ( 19 % ) and radar and electron warfar system ( 13 % ) , the ministri said . in septemb , just befor the war began , germani agre a $ 3 . 5bn deal with israel to buy the sophist arrow 3 missil defenc system , which intercept long - rang ballist missil . the deal - israel ' s largest - ever - had to be approv by the us becaus it jointli develop the system . israel is also home to a vast us arm depot set up in 1984 to pre - posit suppli for it troop in case of a region conflict , as well as to give israel quick access to weapon in emerg . the pentagon ship about 300 , 000 155mm artilleri shell from the war reserv stockpil ammunit - israel to ukrain follow the russian invas . stockpil munit at the depot have also reportedli been suppli to israel sinc the start of the gaza war .