after month of on - off hard talk between belliger and mediat , the time ha come for hard decis . hama ha agre to a draft ceasefir deal , which is `` far from meet israel ' s demand `` , accord to israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu . he ha still felt it necessari to dispatch a deleg to discuss it . israel agre to a ceasefir offer at the end of april . the us secretari of state antoni blinken said it wa `` except gener `` . a big challeng for the negoti in cairo is close the gap between israel ' s version and the one accept by hama . diplomat sourc in qatar , which is part of the mediat effort with egypt and the unit state , told me `` it is broadli the same as israel ' s propos . just minor word chang and detail `` . israel may decid that the differ are not minor . one major stick point ha been that hama want a ceasefir to be perman , not temporari , and to be follow by an isra withdraw from gaza . if the us deleg , led by the cia chief william burn , believ the gap can be bridg , mr netanyahu can expect pressur from washington to agre . until monday even , israel ' s work assumpt wa that hama would not accept a ceasefir propos . benjamin netanyahu and hi govern , like most foreign observ , were blindsid when hama announc it decis . there are two way of look at the hama gambit . it can be seen as a desper move by an organis badli bloodi and almost broken by israel ' s long offens . or it wa an adroit polit move , which ha turn the pressur back on mr netanyahu . that explan is more credibl , as israel ' s plan and assumpt were upend by the offer . we know that israel wa base it move in the next phase of the war on an assumpt that yahya sinwar , the hama chief in gaza who ha been in hide sinc 7 octob , would never accept a ceasefir . israel use the absenc of a ceasefir offer from hama as an explan for it decis to launch a militari oper in gaza . the us is veri clear that it is against ani ground oper in rafah that could threaten the live of more palestinian civilian . as israel warn around 100 , 000 palestinian to leav their home at first light on monday , it defenc minist yoav gallant told hi us counterpart that there wa no altern to a rafah assault . that , he said , wa becaus hama had reject everi propos for a temporari ceasefir and a releas of hostag . onli a few hour later , hama made it announc , call israel ' s bluff . mr netanyahu is in a polit bind . hi govern style over more than 16 year as israel ' s leader ha been characteris by a habit of put off difficult choic . but now he is under sever pressur , from all side , and howev tempt it might be to play for time , thi is a moment for decis . the most intens pressur come from two ultranationalist jewish extremist in hi cabinet - financ minist bezalel smotrich and itamar ben gvir , minist for nation secur . mr netanyahu need their vote to keep hi coalit in power . they want israel to occupi rafah and have threaten to toppl the govern if he doe not make it happen . for them , a ceasefir equal surrend . at the same time , famili and support of isra hostag have been demonstr , block major road to demand that israel make a deal to get them back home . the hostag famili have support in the war cabinet from benni gantz and gabi eisenkot , two opposit leader who join the cabinet after the 7 octob attack . they might leav the govern if , in the absenc of a ceasefir , the hostag stay put . the american also want a deal . presid biden ' s support for israel , even as it armi kill huge number of palestinian civilian , is cost him polit support . if mr biden decid that there is an accept version of a ceasefir to be had , he will push benjamin netanyahu to support it . the isra leader would have to choos between hi govern ' s surviv and the vital support the us presid ha given him in recent month . it is wide believ in israel that mr netanyahu want to prolong the war to put off the moment of reckon for hi own part in the mistak that gave hama it opportun on 7 octob to kill around 1200 peopl , mostli isra and take 240 hostag into gaza . a ceasefir would also mean that benjamin netanyahu ha not achiev `` total victori `` over hama - one of hi two main war aim . the other is free the hostag , which he ha not achiev either . thi war is show , onc again , how hard it is for power countri like israel to defeat much weaker organis like hama . for hama , surviv mean victori , and benjamin netanyahu know that , for him , would be a defeat .