ten of thousand of isra , mani from nationalist group , have taken part in the annual jerusalem day flag march to mark the captur of the east of the citi in the 1967 war . crowd wave isra flag and shout anti - arab slogan gather outsid the old citi ’ s damascu gate befor march to the western wall through the muslim quarter - an act seen by palestinian as a provoc . palestinian shop along the process rout close , amid a heavi isra polic presenc , with 3 , 000 offic deploy . polic later said that 18 peopl were arrest , includ five for attack journalist . israel ’ s haaretz newspap - whose journalist nir hasson wa among those assault - report that hundr of young men rampag through the muslim quarter befor the event began , chant “ death to arab ” and attack palestinian and other peopl . the flag march is alway tens , but fear of violenc were higher thi year becaus of the war in gaza . israel ’ s far - right nation secur minist , itamar ben - gvir , took part in the march and said at the start that it wa send a messag to hama that “ jerusalem is our ” . “ with the help of god , the full victori is our , '' he ad . meanwhil , prime minist benjamin netanyahu told a special meet in honour of jerusalem day that israel wa `` surround by enemi `` as it had been 57 year ago . '' they thought to strangl us , to wipe us off the map . but we are an ancient peopl , a peopl of brave fighter . we stood up as one and we defend ourselv , '' he said . `` we are also do so today against hama in the south , hezbollah in the north and iran in the east . ” hama ’ s polit leader , ismail haniyeh , condemn what he call the “ rampag of settler ” in jerusalem . “ our peopl will not rest until the occup end , ” he vow . jerusalem , with it major muslim , jewish and christian holi site , is at the heart of the decad - old isra - palestinian conflict . israel - which occupi the formerli jordanian - held east of the citi in 1967 , and effect annex it in 1980 in a move not recognis by most countri - regard the whole of jerusalem as it capit . palestinian leader want east jerusalem - which is home to about 350 , 000 palestinian and 230 , 000 isra settler - to be the capit of a futur independ palestinian state . on the day of the isra flag march in 2021 , hama fire rocket at jerusalem , trigger a war in gaza that last 11 day . the current war began when hama attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 251 other as hostag . at least 36 , 580 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the territori ' s hama - run health ministri say .