the us doe not believ israel ' s action in rafah amount to a `` major ground oper `` that could cross a red line for presid joe biden and trigger a possibl chang in us polici , the white hous ha said . spokesman john kirbi address report hour after isra forc reach the centr of the citi in southern gaza , and reportedli seiz a strateg import hill . mr biden recent said he would limit weapon suppli to israel if it enter rafah ' s “ popul centr ” , where hundr of thousand of civilian are still believ to be shelter . mr kirbi wa also question about an isra strike and a result fire that kill at least 45 palestinian on sunday . mani of them were women , children , or elderli , who were shelter at a camp for displac peopl . israel ha said the strike target and kill two senior hama offici , and that it believ the fire could have been caus by an explos at a hama weapon store nearbi . speak to report , mr kirbi describ imag from the aftermath of the strike as `` heartbreak `` and `` horrif `` . “ there should be no innoc life lost here as a result of thi conflict , '' he ad . the us state depart said it wa watch close for the isra militari to conduct a quick and thorough investig into the strike . press by bbc correspond tom bateman on whether previou such investig had led to account , state depart spokesman matthew miller declin to name specif case . “ you can not reach a conclus about the result of these investig in the middl of a conflict , ” he said . when the white hous spokesman wa ask whether the strike had violat the limit previous set by presid biden , he said he had `` no polici chang to speak to `` . “ we don ' t support , we won ' t support a major ground oper in rafah , ” mr kirbi said . “ the presid said that , should that occur , then it might make him have to make differ decis in term of support . “ we haven ' t seen that happen at thi point . we have not seen them smash into rafah . '' we have not seen them go in with larg unit , larg number of troop , in column and format in some sort of co - ordin manoeuvr against multipl target on the ground . '' israel ha insist it will not be abl to achiev victori in it seven - month war against hama in gaza without take rafah and reject warn of catastroph humanitarian consequ . the israel defens forc ( idf ) first began what it call “ target ” ground oper against hama fighter and infrastructur in the east of rafah on 6 may . sinc then , tank and troop have gradual push into built - up eastern and central area while also move northward along the 13km ( 8 - mile ) border with egypt . speak to cnn on 8 may , presid biden said he had made it clear to isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu that “ if they go into rafah , i ’ m not suppli the weapon that have been use histor to deal with rafah , to deal with the citi , to deal with that problem ” . he said he had not suspend the suppli of weapon at that point becaus israel had not yet “ gone into the popul centr ” in rafah and that it oper had been “ right on the border ” . the presid is face grow call at home to put greater pressur on the isra govern to ensur everyth is done to minimis the humanitarian impact of the conflict . democrat senat chri van hollen , who visit gaza in januari , told the washington post : “ the escal civilian death toll and deepen humanitarian catastroph make clear that the biden administr should paus addit offens militari assist to the netanyahu govern until we know that all the presid ’ s request , includ with respect to rafah and the urgent deliveri of humanitarian assist , will be respect . ” in an address to the isra parliament on monday , mr netanyahu said sunday ' s strike had been a `` tragic mishap `` but vow to continu with the rafah oper . describ the aftermath of the strike , mohammad al - mughayyir , an offici with gaza ’ s hama - run civil defenc agenc , wa quot as say by afp news agenc : `` we saw char bodi and dismemb limb . we also saw case of amput , wound children women , and the elderli . ” an eyewit name muhannad , himself a displac resid of gaza , describ the air strike : `` when we heard the sound the sky suddenli lit up . '' hamad , anoth man at the scene , told afp : `` when these rocket fall on a tower block there are dozen of martyr , so what about when they are tent ? '' the attack ha drawn protest from region govern , includ egypt and qatar who have act as mediat in the conflict , as well as jordan , kuwait , saudi arabia and turkey . egypt said the strike wa part of a “ systemat polici ” intend to make gaza “ uninhabit ” and qatar describ it as a `` danger violat of intern law `` that could “ complic ongo mediat effort `` . jordan accus israel of `` ongo war crime `` , while saudi arabia condemn the “ continu massacr `` , and turkish presid recep tayyip erdogan vow `` to hold these barbarian and murder account `` . the un ha said around a million peopl have now fled the fight in rafah but that sever hundr thousand more could still be shelter there . resid of the citi report heavi bombard of western district overnight on monday , and on tuesday the idf said it wa continu oper against `` terror target `` . wit said isra tank were station at al - awda roundabout , a key landmark and the locat of sever major bank and govern institut . an eyewit told the bbc that isra soldier had taken up posit on top of a build overlook the area and start shoot at ani movement . the alleg could not be independ verifi . speak from rafah on tuesday , sam rose , a spokesman for unrwa , the un ’ s humanitarian agenc for palestinian refuge , told bbc news : `` what we ' ve wit over the past 24 hour is an intensif of the bombard in rafah , and militari oper [ which are ] push further west into the tal al - sultan district of the citi . `` that includ the tent camp that wa hit a coupl of night ago . it also includ a larg unrwa logist base and the unrwa health centr which is essenti the beat heart of the humanitarian oper in rafah , and ha been for sever month . `` these part of the citi have larg empti out over the past 24 hour . so real concern , real numb , real fear amongst the popul right now . '' the isra militari ha deni report on tuesday that it tank shell hit anoth tent camp in al - mawasi , on the coast west of rafah , which local offici said had kill at least 21 peopl . video of the incid post to social media and analys by bbc verifi show multipl peopl with seriou injuri . there wa no clear sign of a blast zone or crater , make it imposs to ascertain the caus of the incid . the locat - verifi through refer to surround build - lie south of the isra militari ' s design humanitarian zone . israel launch a militari campaign in gaza to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . at least 36 , 090 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the hama - run health ministri .