isra defenc minist yoav gallant ha reject the arrest warrant sought by the intern crimin court ' s prosecutor for him and prime minist benjamin netanyahu . mr gallant said the prosecutor , karim khan , had drawn a `` despic `` parallel between israel and the palestinian arm group hama and attempt to deni hi countri ' s right to self - defenc . mr khan also accus hama ’ s gaza leader yahya sinwar , militari chief moham deif and polit leader ismail haniyeh . he said on monday that he had `` reason ground `` to believ the five men bore `` crimin respons `` for alleg war crime and crime against human dure the war in gaza . mr netanyahu and hama also react with outrag to the announc . if the icc ’ s judg decid to issu the arrest warrant , it will be up to it 124 member state - who do not includ israel or it alli , the us - to decid whether or not to enforc them . the us said the move against israel ’ s leader wa “ outrag ” , while the uk describ it as “ deepli unhelp ” . but franc express support for the icc and it “ fight against impun ” . mr khan ’ s case against the leader of hama and israel stem from the event of 7 octob , when hama gunmen attack southern israel , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other back to gaza as hostag . israel respond to the attack by launch a militari campaign to elimin hama , dure which at least 35 , 640 peopl have been kill in gaza , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . mr khan accus the hama leader of crime against human and war crime includ extermin , murder , the take of hostag , rape and tortur . for the isra leader , the accus includ deliber attack on civilian , and the use of starvat as a weapon of war , as well as extermin and murder . '' intern law and the law of arm conflict appli to all , '' mr khan said . `` no foot soldier , no command , no civilian leader - no - one - can act with impun . ” in a statement , mr gallant insist that isra forc were fight in gaza “ in accord with intern law , while take unpreced measur to facilit humanitarian aid ” . “ i stand with , support , and commend our troop , who are defend our peopl and fulfil the extraordinari privileg and oblig of defend ourselv , by ourselv , ” he said . he ad : “ the attempt made by the icc prosecutor karim khan to turn thing around will not succeed - the parallel he ha drawn between the hama terrorist organ and the state of israel is despic . ” mr gallant reiter that israel wa not a signatori of the rome statut , the icc ’ s found treati , and did not recognis it author . “ karim khan ' s attempt to deni the state of israel the right to defend herself and ensur the releas of the hostag held in gaza must be reject explicitli . ” there wa no immedi respons from mr khan to the remark or to the statement made by mr netanyahu , who denounc the warrant applic for him and mr gallant as a “ moral outrag of histor proport ” . hama - which is proscrib as a terrorist organis by israel , the us , uk and other countri - demand the “ cancel of all arrest warrant issu against leader of the palestinian resist ” and denounc what it call mr khan ' s `` attempt ... to equat the victim with the execution `` . the group also complain that the applic for warrant against mr netanyahu and mr gallant had come “ seven month late ” , and that other isra polit and militari leader had not been name alongsid them . the isra govern also urg on tuesday “ the nation of the civilis , free world - nation who despis terrorist and anyon who support them - to stand by israel ” . “ make sure the icc understand where you stand , ” spokesman tal heinrich told a brief . “ oppos the prosecutor ' s decis and declar that , even if warrant are issu , you do not intend to enforc them . becaus thi is not about our leader . it ' s about our surviv . '' the us ambassador to israel , jack lew , said there wa no comparison between `` action taken by a democrat govern here with the behaviour of a terrorist organis that is fight in a way that ha creat these condit `` . “ i don ' t think that a day ha gone by that i haven ' t work with either the prime minist or the defenc minist or somebodi in their immedi circl on how you get humanitarian assist to starv peopl , '' he told a confer , accord to reuter news agenc . speak to report in vienna , uk prime minist rishi sunak also brand mr khan ’ s decis as a “ deepli unhelp develop ” . '' there is no moral equival between a democrat state exercis it law right to self - defenc and the terrorist group hama . '' itali ’ s foreign minist , antonio tajani , said it wa “ truli singular , i would say unaccept , to equat a govern legitim elect by the peopl in a democraci with a terrorist organis ” . and czech prime minist petr fiala describ the alleg against isra leader as “ appal and complet unaccept ” . howev , their reaction contrast sharpli with those of other european countri . french foreign ministri put out a statement late on monday voic support for the icc , “ it independ and the fight against impun in everi situat ” . belgium ’ s foreign minist hadja lahbib also said it prioritis the fight against impun and that “ crime commit in gaza must be prosecut at the highest level , regardless of the perpetr ” . the german foreign ministri said it respect the icc ’ s “ independ and the conduct of proceed ” , but warn that the simultan warrant request had “ result in an incorrect implic of equival ” . a european union spokesman said it support the icc ’ s “ central role in bring justic to victim in all situat under it jurisdict ” and that the bloc would be “ take note of ” the rule of the court ’ s judg to mr khan ’ s applic .