even without a full - scale isra ground invas , rafah ' s medic facil have been overwhelm . medic say more than a million peopl shelter in the southern gaza citi are at risk of be depriv of healthcar after the isra militari began a `` limit `` oper against hama on it eastern outskirt on monday . the largest of the citi ' s three partial function hospit , abu youssef al - najjar , had to be hastili abandon the follow day after staff receiv an evacu order and there wa fight nearbi . the hospit ' s dialysi depart had been the onli surviv one in gaza , a lifelin for patient suffer kidney failur . the isra advanc ha also cut off access to the nearbi european gaza hospit in khan youni , where critic patient were be refer for surgeri , as well as the nearbi rafah and kerem shalom border cross . with the emirati matern hospit in rafah busi deliv dozen of babi each day , the kuwaiti specialist hospit is struggl to cope with a surg of emerg case despit a lack of capac , staff and equip . one doctor at the hospit , which befor the war had onli four intens care bed , said the situat there wa `` catastroph in everi sens of the word `` . `` unfortun , the kuwaiti hospit is a small hospit that doe not have diagnost capabl , '' dr jamal al - ham , it director , told bbc arab ' s gaza lifelin programm . `` even the x - ray machin is disabl due to the isra shell and there are no spare part for it , as the cross are close . '' `` and the cbc analysi devic ha stop due to be overload , '' he ad , refer to the complet blood count test use to diagnos and monitor numer diseas . dr ham said he and hi colleagu were nevertheless have to treat peopl with complex trauma wound , burn , fractur and crush limb . `` we have receiv some case of torn abdomen and intestin , and case of skull fractur with part of the brain outsid the skull , '' he recal . `` some case have lost major part of the buttock , in addit to case of amput of the lower limb at the foot area . `` these are unusu injuri caus by unusu weapon . i live through all previou war [ in gaza ] ... where injuri were alway in a certain area and dealt with by one specialist . but now each case need sever specialist . '' he also express anger at how doctor at al - najjar hospit had been forc to evacu both the facil and their famili home at such short notic . the isra militari told all resid of a number of eastern area of rafah to leav for their own safeti on monday and head toward an `` expand humanitarian area `` stretch from nearbi al - mawasi to the central town of deir al - balah , where it said there would be field hospit , tent and aid . `` where should they go ? tent and other suppli were suppos to be provid in other safe area . thi ha not been done , '' dr ham said . dr youssef abu al - rish , undersecretari of the hama - run health ministri in gaza , told gaza lifelin that rafah ' s remain medic facil would no longer abl to save the live of mani serious wound or ill patient . `` rafah governor doe not have real medic servic after the abu youssef al - najjar hospit went out of servic and peopl were unabl to reach the european gaza hospit , '' he said . `` there are mani field hospit , but they can not provid all these servic as they do not have the necessari infrastructur or capabl ... for instanc , they do not have dialysi servic , oxygen - gener station , intens care depart or blood bank . '' he ad : `` the kuwaiti hospit is a small non - government hospit that can not provid emerg servic . but we are tri to enhanc it capabl . '' medic aid group project hope said on thursday that all of it clinic and mobil medic point in rafah were close , and that almost all of it staff had been evacu , with mani flee to khan youni and deir al - balah . `` most aid servic were base in rafah . now that peopl are further north , there is nearli no help . as long as the violenc continu and the rafah border cross remain close , more and more peopl will die from prevent caus , '' said mose kondow , it gaza team lead in rafah . mr kondow said he expect to see malnutrit , pregnanc complic and other health condit like hepat a and cholera increas . hundr of thousand of children shelter in rafah are alreadi injur , sick , malnourish , traumat or live with disabl . médecin san frontièr said on wednesday that it team had begun to discharg patient from rafah indonesian field hospit , where they help provid post - oper care , and had suspend activ at it clinic in al - shaboura - a move it describ as `` catastroph `` . the medic group also said it wa hand over it activ at the emirati matern hospit to the gaza health ministri . dr abu al - rish said the closur of the rafah cross with egypt , which isra troop seiz on tuesday , meant patient who had been due to be sent abroad for medic treatment were now strand . haitham , a teenag boy who ha alreadi had three oper for a bullet wound that punctur hi lung , is one of those wait to leav . `` i feel helpless , '' he said . `` the world is powerless to open the border . the hospit here can no longer help me . '' zeina , a nine - year - old girl who ha epilepsi , wa also schedul to be transfer abroad by the end of thi week . `` she went to the hospit for hepat and her liver function test where veri high and she fell into a coma , '' her mother told gaza lifelin . `` after 14 day , zeina woke up and her nerv cell had been affect and she couldn ' t ... walk or move or hold anyth . her hand were often shake so they start give her medic and then put her up for transfer . '' isra militari spokesman rear admir daniel hagari said on thursday night that it troop were continu to oper against `` terror target and the smuggl of weapon in the area of eastern rafah `` . `` thi activ support the intellig we had [ that ] hama use the area of the rafah cross for terror , '' he ad . `` we found sever terrorist tunnel shaft in the area , which we are current investig and scan , and so far , our forc have elimin approxim 50 terrorist in thi area dure encount and air strike , and also dure scan in the area . '' the isra militari also said it had reopen the nearbi kerem shalom good cross for humanitarian aid on wednesday , but the un ha said the fight ha made it imposs for it to pick up suppli there . and unless they receiv deliveri of fuel in the next few day , the world health organ ha said all hospit in rafah and elsewher in southern gaza may soon have to halt servic .