spain , ireland and norway have formal recognis a palestinian state , in what they say is an attempt to refocu attent on effort to find a polit solut to the war in the middl east . they hope by act togeth they will encourag other european countri to follow suit , in a diplomat push that could help secur a ceasefir in gaza and the releas of hostag held by hama . the symbol decis ha provok a furiou row with israel ’ s govern which ha accus all three countri of reward terror . israel ha withdrawn it ambassador from ireland , norway and spain and formal reprimand their envoy in tel aviv . all three were summon to israel ’ s foreign ministri last week to be shown footag of the 7 octob attack in front of the media . the recognit of palestin by the three countri also increas diplomat pressur on israel after two intern court call for an end to israel defens forc ( idf ) oper in southern gaza and accus prime minist benjamin netanyahu of war crime . western countri have also step up sanction on isra settler in the occupi palestinian territori . the process of diplomat recognit vari between countri , but normal involv a formal exchang of credenti with the palestinian author in ramallah . exist consul or mission in the west bank or east jerusalem then becom formal embassi , while repres transform into full - blown ambassador . all three countri said they recognis a palestinian state base on border establish befor the war in 1967 , with jerusalem as the capit of both israel and palestin . the palestinian flag flew over ireland ’ s parliament as td set asid four hour to debat the issu . befor the cabinet where the formal decis would be made , the taioseach ( prime minist ) simon harri said it wa an “ histor and import ” move . he said he hope other european countri would follow the lead becaus they had to use everi lever at their dispos to encourag a ceasefir . speak to parliament as the measur wa approv , mr harri said : `` i hope it send the palestinian peopl a messag of hope that in thi , their darkest hour , ireland stand with them . '' it is an express of our view that palestin hold and should be abl to vindic the full right of the state , includ self - determin , self - govern , territori integr and secur , as well as recognis palestin ' s own oblig under intern law . '' as norway ’ s formal recognit came into effect , foreign minist espen barth eid said it wa `` a special day for norway - palestin relat `` . ahead of spain ’ s cabinet meet , prime minist pedro sánchez said recognis palestin wa “ not onli a matter of histor justic ” , it wa also “ an essenti requir if we are all to achiev peac ” . he insist that spain wa not act against israel and wa stand against hama which oppos a two - state solut . israel appear most angri with spain . it foreign minist , israel katz , ha post a video on social media show flamenco danc and music juxtapos with explicit imag of the 7 octob attack , with the word : “ hama : thank you spain . ” spain condemn the post as `` scandal and revolt `` . mr katz post similar video about ireland and norway . the row deepen when spain ’ s deputi prime minist , yolanda díaz , call publicli for palestinian to be “ free from the river to the sea ” , a controversi phrase which mani isra consid antisemit and a call for the complet destruct of the state of israel . in a post on x , formerli twitter , mr katz hit back on tuesday , compar ms díaz to the hama command , moham sinwar , and iran ’ s suprem leader , ali khamenei . he told mr sánchez that if he did not fire hi deputi , “ you are particip in the incit to commit genocid and war crime against the jewish peopl ” . diplomat suspect that israel ha respond robustli toward spain , ireland and norway to discourag other countri from follow their lead . slovenia , malta and belgium have in recent month indic they could recognis palestin too . but belgium ’ s govern appear to have cool on the idea ahead of elect . prime minist alexand de croo said he want to wait until belgium could recognis palestin alongsid major european nation to have greater impact . “ symbol solv noth , ” he said . most countri – about 139 in all – formal recognis a palestinian state . on 10 may , 143 out of 193 member of the unit nation ’ gener assembl vote in favour of a palestinian bid for full un membership , someth that is onli open to state . palestin current ha a kind of enhanc observ statu at the un , which give it a seat but not a vote in the assembl . it is also recognis by variou intern organis includ the arab leagu and the organis of islam co - oper . a minor of european countri alreadi recognis a palestinian state . they includ former member of the soviet bloc , such as hungari , poland , romania , czechia , slovakia and bulgaria , which adopt the posit in 1988 ; and other includ sweden and cypru . but mani european countri – and the us - say they will recognis a palestinian state onli as part of a long - term polit solut to the conflict in the middl east .