after isra forc pull out of gaza citi ’ s vast al - shifa hospit complex on 1 april , follow their second raid there , stun palestinian who pore over the burnt - out ruin said it reek of death . dure the past eight month of war , hospit have come under repeat attack , with israel claim they are use as base by hama ; someth the group deni . but event at al - shifa – onc the biggest and best equip medic facil in the gaza strip – have arguabl been the most dramat . the two - week surpris raid , launch after israel said hama had regroup at the site , wa describ by the isra govern as `` precis and surgic `` . it spokesman , avi hyman , assert that it had set `` the gold standard of urban warfar `` . he said : “ we took out over 200 terrorist . we apprehend over 900 terrorist with not a singl civilian casualti . ” with decay bodi stick out of the sand pile up by combat bulldoz in the courtyard of al - shifa , the claim that there had been no civilian casualti wa immedi question . in recent week , four mass grave have been uncov at the site , with palestinian search team say that sever hundr bodi have been found . we have work with a journalist in gaza to follow develop . “ we ’ ve extract martyr , mani of whom are decompos and complet unidentifi , ” a palestinian civil defenc worker , rami dababesh told us grimli on 8 may as he stood by a line of white plastic bodi bag at al - shifa , wear a face mask and full protect gear . “ we ’ ve found corps of women , children and individu without head as well as torn bodi part , ” he ad . the civil defenc lack forens equip and expertis , but it team have been use photo and video to document the remain . a director , dr moham mughir , told us there were suspici find ; describ how “ sign of field execut , bind mark , gunshot wound to the head and tortur mark on the limb were observ on the bodi of some martyr `` . the un secur council ha express “ deep concern ” at the discoveri of mass grave at both al - shifa and nasser hospit in southern gaza . along with the us and the european union , it ha call for an independ investig into possibl war crime . the israel defens forc ( idf ) say that dure it raid of the gaza hospit , it soldier exhum bodi that palestinian had buri earlier as part of it search for the remain of some 250 hostag captur dure the deadli hama attack on israel on 7 octob . it maintain bodi were examin respect and those not belong to isra captiv were return to their place . howev , at least some of the corps found recent at al - shifa were those of patient who die dure israel ’ s latest militari action . a paramed involv in the search said some had iv cathet still attach . on 15 april , the bbc met two men whose dead mother were last seen be treat at the hospit . their bodi had just been recov from a mass grave . “ i came run here when they told me of the grave , ” said moham al - khatib , who had spent day search for hi mother , khawla . “ by the grace of almighti god her bodi wa found . ” walid fteima said hi elderli mother , lina abu leila , wa be treat for malnutrit and sever dehydr when she die . her bodi wa decompos , and he could onli identifi her from injuri she had from an isra bomb last year . “ [ she ] had a toe amput on each foot , ” he explain . after it began it oper at the hospit earli on 18 march , the idf order thousand of civilian shelter there and live in the vicin to leav and head south . howev , it said the hospit could continu to function . by the end of two week , onli some 140 patient and medic reportedli remain . the local who repres , dr rik peeperkorn , say thi group endur “ horrif condit ” . after be repeatedli move around the complex , he say , they “ actual end up in the human resourc build which wa complet unfit for treatment `` . ultim , he say , 20 patient die . sever surviv patient – all wound in previou isra strike – told us they were given onli tini quantiti of food such as can tuna . they said there were sever shortag of drink water and medic . “ the bomb surround us 24 / 7 , ” said moham al - nadeem who is half paralys . “ i am sick and unabl to move . i wa sleep on the floor without blanket . ” “ there were no dress or painkil , ” said rafif doghmush , 15 , whose foot ha been amput . the idf ha told journalist that no staff or patient die as a “ direct result ” of it action , but that some may have die of “ natur caus `` . dure it raid , it said it help patient by move them out of harm ’ s way and that medic suppli and devic as well as food , water , and a gener were brought to the hospit . graini drone footag share by the idf after it launch it raid on 18 march show palestinian gunmen appar shoot at soldier from insid al - shifa hospit . later , the gunmen were said to have barricad themselv in ward and corridor , open fire and throw explos . three isra soldier were confirm to have been kill dure the two - week long oper . the idf brief journalist that it action at the hospit wa taken base on “ concret intellig ” that hama and palestinian islam jihad had taken over part of the site , suggest their oper had been use it to access basic suppli as well as power and the internet . while hama deni use al - shifa as a base , it offici did not deni the presenc of some member insid the complex , indic that they may have been among displac peopl shelter there . israel ha said that “ over 200 terrorist ” were kill in and around al - shifa , as well as the hundr detain , but ha onli given some name . these includ faiq al - mabhouh , describ as head of oper in hama ’ intern secur servic . the hama - run govern ’ s media offic said he wa a polic command who had been co - ordin aid deliveri to northern gaza . other kill were identifi as a senior hama command , ra thabet , said to have been head of recruit and suppli acquisit , and mahmoud zakzouk , said to have been deputi command of the hama rocket unit in gaza citi . two other hama oper were name as fadi dweik and zakaria najib , said to have been involv in organis attack in the occupi west bank . in april , the idf also releas footag which it said wa from the interrog of tarek abu shaluf , spokesman for the polit wing of islam jihad . it said he had been captur at al - shifa . hama and islam jihad do not routin confirm the name of low - level fighter kill by isra militari action , make it veri difficult to estim how mani were kill at the hospit and in the vicin . it is like that a number were among the dead found in mass grave . despit the isra claim that there wa “ not a singl civilian casualti ” from it raid , we have been given strong testimoni that there were palestinian civilian kill by heavi isra bombard and intens shoot in the surround neighbourhood . the palestinian civil defenc told us that hundr of palestinian were still report to be miss follow the raid in march . there have repeatedli been conflict narr about what ha happen in and around al - shifa . dure it first controversi raid there , the isra militari rais expect that isra hostag might be found at the site . it also releas a graphic depict a vast underground tunnel network that it suggest wa underneath the hospit , serv as a major hama command and control centr . while the idf said it retriev the bodi of two isra hostag near to the hospit , it did not announc that it had found ani within the complex . secur camera footag that wa recov did show that at least two foreign captiv were taken there on 7 octob . the idf show what it said wa a fortifi 55 - metr tunnel on the hospit ground . thi fell short of it initi claim about the extent of hidden tunnel , although later report suggest the passag – which wa blown up – had actual been longer and wa most like connect to a wider network under gaza citi . when it return to the site in march , the idf suggest it key discoveri were of a differ natur , releas pictur of cash , weapon , and ammunit it said it had found there along with hama document . al - shifa ha been at the heart of a debat about whether hama use medic site as a cover . israel ha consist claim that the group hide it fighter and infrastructur behind the sick and wound , which it suggest ha render hospit legitim militari target . hama deni misus civilian site and accus israel of violat intern humanitarian law by target hospit . in april , when the un call for “ a clear , transpar and credibl investig ” of mass grave in gaza , it spokesman stephan dujarr told report that more journalist need to be abl to work safe in the territori to report on the fact . dure the war , israel and egypt have deni free access to foreign media . mr dujarr also said : “ it ’ s import that all forens evid be well preserv . ” so far , that is prove to be a challeng . intern forens specialist have been unabl to reach gaza to investig what happen at al - shifa . that ha left much of the focu local on regist and identifi the dead where possibl , and give them proper burial . the disturb of the mass grave site , expert say , will ultim make it much harder to uncov the truth about them . meanwhil , although al - shifa ha been larg destroy , there have been recent effort to restart veri limit medic servic on site . these gain momentum as israel target other health facil which it said were be use by hama , particularli kamal adwan hospit in northern gaza . in late may , in a hastili repair room of the kidney dialysi unit at al - shifa , the journalist work with us met four patient as they sat connect to steadili beep machin . after so mani death at the hospit , it is onc again provid some life - save treatment .