a crude oil tanker ha been damag in a missil attack off the coast of yemen - the latest strike to be carri out by the houthi . the incid happen roughli 15 nautic mile south - west of the yemeni citi of mocha . british maritim secur agenc ukmto report that the panama - flag ship wa struck twice and suffer damag . no injuri or death have been report and the incid is be investig . accord to the ukmto , the first missil attack caus an explos near to the ship and wa felt by those aboard . the second - thought to involv two missil - made contact . global risk manag firm ambrey said that three missil had been sight . it ad that ballist missil had reportedli been fire from yemen ' s south - western taiz govern . the houthi have claim respons for the attack . the group ' s militari spokesman , yahya sarea , said in a televis speech on saturday that a `` british `` ship call the andromeda star had been target , result in a `` direct hit `` . us central command confirm that andromeda star wa the ship in question , that it had suffer minor damag and wa continu it voyag . ambrey report that the tanker in question wa own by the uk until novemb 2023 . it current owner is seychel - regist and wa engag in russia - link trade - travel from the russia town of primorsk to vadinar , in the indian state of gujarat , when the attack happen . ambrey advis ship owner and oper to carri out a `` thorough affili check `` befor transit the area `` as the houthi may associ vessel with out - of - date affili `` . sinc novemb , the rebel group ha been carri out attack on ship they say are link to israel in the red sea and the gulf of aden , say their action are in support of the palestinian in gaza . the us and the uk have carri out a seri of attack on houthi target insid yemen in respons , lead the houthi to retali against ship it believ are link to those countri . the rebel ' attack on merchant vessel in the red sea have prompt mani ship compani to stop use the waterway , through which about 12 % of global seaborn trade pass .