when is a ceasefir not a ceasefir ? accord to the isra armi , when it ’ s a “ local , tactic paus of militari activ for humanitarian purpos ” . israel ’ s humanitarian aid coordin for gaza set out the detail of the schedul daili paus in fight between 08 : 00 and 19 : 00 local time , along a key rout run north from the kerem shalom cross point , where aid is wait to be deliv . the announc almost immedi trigger a furiou polit assault from far - right govern minist – and a rapid defenc from israel ’ s armi , insist that it did not signal an end to the fight in southern gaza , or ani chang to the entri of humanitarian aid . the fact that thi announc ha prove so explos highlight the increasingli fraught situat of israel ’ s prime minist , caught between the cost of hi vagu and so far unattain militari goal of dismantl hama and bring home the hostag , and the polit alli he reli on to stay in power . agenc will still need to coordin their movement with the isra armi , and the gaza director for the world food programm , matt hollingworth , said the test would be whether that coordin becam smoother and faster as a result . but he also said that coordin wa onli part of the obstacl agenc face in deliv aid insid gaza . sunday ' s announc `` doesn ’ t resolv the issu of insecur and crimin , ” he said . “ and thi is the most danger area of the gaza strip right now for move aid . ” aid agenc report over the weekend that the continu war wa fuell acut malnutrit in part of gaza . israel is under pressur – from ngo , alli and it own high court – to get more aid into gaza . but prime minist benjamin netanyahu face stiff opposit from two far - right cabinet colleagu , who say they will bring down hi govern if he agre to end the war , and who see aid deliveri as delay israel ’ s victori . they react furious to today ’ s announc , with intern secur minist , itamar ben - gvir , describ “ whoever made thi decis ” as “ evil ” and “ a fool ” . financ minist , bezalel smotrich , said that humanitarian aid help keep hama in power and risk put “ the achiev of the war down the drain ” . that the armi could issu thi messag on a day when israel wa buri eleven of it soldier , he said , wa a symptom of the leadership give too much weight to intern opinion and not enough to the forc on the ground . both men have threaten to bring down mr netanyahu ’ s coalit govern if he end the war , as america want . but pressur over the cost of that war are rise at home too . israel ’ s parallel conflict with hezbollah in lebanon ha escal in recent day , highlight the broader risk of continu the war with their hama alli . last night , larg crowd turn out to protest in tel aviv , call on mr netanyahu to end the conflict in gaza and sign a deal to return 120 isra hostag home . and the funer of eleven soldier , kill in gaza over the weekend , are again pull into focu question over how the state war aim of israel ’ s prime minist can be achiev . mr netanyahu ha promis “ total victori ” against hama . he ha frame the current oper in rafah as an assault on the group ’ s last remain battalion in gaza – necessari to destroy it , he say . but it ’ s clear that even dismantl hama as a structur militari organis doe not mean an end to the conflict entir . isra forc still face guerrilla oper by hama fighter in area they have previous clear . and there ’ s no sign that the group ’ s key leader – yahya sinwar and moham deif – have been kill or captur . for mr netanyahu , end the war is like to bring a fresh battl for hi own polit surviv . the divis laid bare today between hi armi and hi alli highlight the tension between rhetor and realiti in thi war . and the tension mr netanyahu face in straddl them : caught between the promis of “ total victori ” and the prospect of a `` forev war `` .