the war in gaza is be fought on mani front . one of them is aid . month after some isra start to protest against aid lorri enter gaza at the main kerem shalom cross , the battl ha move to other key junction , where rival group of activist do their best to block or protect aid convoy . in recent week , social media ha been flood with imag of aid lorri be block and ransack . right - wing activist , includ jewish settler live in the occupi west bank , have upload dozen of video of crowd , includ some veri young children , hurl food onto the ground and stamp on box of aid . “ it ’ s import to stop the aid , ” one activist say . “ it ’ s the onli way we ’ ll win . the onli way we ’ ll get our hostag back . ” mani argu that gazan should receiv noth while isra hostag remain in captiv , and that provid aid to gaza mere serv to prolong the war . in one video , a group of jubil protest danc and celebr on top of a loot lorri . in anoth , one of the strand lorri is ablaz . other video show isra vigilant stop lorri in jerusalem and demand that driver show paper prove they are not transport aid to gaza . their face are uncov and they appear to be act with complet impun . in the west bank , at least two driver who were not carri good bound for gaza were drag from their cab and beaten . palestinian lorri driver say they ’ re traumatis . “ i ’ m terrifi to reach the cross point , ” adel amro told the bbc . “ i fear for my life . ” mr amro wa carri commerci purchas good from the west bank to gaza when he wa set upon . other target driver are involv in transport aid from jordan , which ha to cross the west bank and israel befor it reach gaza . “ we ’ re now take side road , far from the main rout , becaus we fear the aggress of the settler , ” he said . but after a seri of well - document attack , some isra are fight back . peac activist have taken to track their oppon ’ movement on social media and make sure they ’ re present at key cross point . at tarqumiya checkpoint , where lorri enter israel from the southern west bank , member of the group stand togeth are now mount regular vigil . tarqumiya wa the scene of one of the most dramat recent attack . “ peopl in gaza are starv and aid should get to gaza , ” said suf patishi , one of stand togeth ’ s found member . “ isra societi should say in a loud and clear voic that we are oppos to these act , ” he said of the recent attack on convoy . “ it ’ s not a lot to ask , not to die from hunger , you know . ” the group bring togeth jew and arab from all over israel . for nasser odat , an isra arab from haifa , come to tarqumiya provid a welcom opportun to feel use , after more than seven month of helplessli watch the war in gaza . “ i feel veri empow , ” he said . “ now , final , i have someth to do to help . to help these peopl that are starv . ” as the peac activist shelter from the fierc sun under palm tree at the centr of a roundabout , pass lorri driver wave and sound their horn in gratitud . a small group of right - wing demonstr arriv but were heavili outnumb by mr patishi ’ s volunt . the two side debat their differ posit in discuss that becam increasingli heat . polic offic stood nearbi , readi to keep the oppos camp apart if it came to blow . the peac activist have accus the polic , under the control of nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir , one of the most hardlin member of benjamin netanyahu ’ s govern , of do littl to stop the attack . they say there ’ s evid that settler are receiv help from the author and point to text messag in which group organis attack on aid lorri solicit and receiv help from the polic and armi . “ a lot of time the polic were in the area when attack occur , but they didn ' t have someon to push them to act , ” mr patishi said . “ and it ' s veri sad becaus the polic should keep the law . ” as lorri drove by , two young women wave an isra flag but stop short of tri to stop the traffic . the two , who ask to be identifi as ariel and shira ( not their real name ) , explain whi they felt it wa import to be there . “ we would prefer that we don ’ t have to do the blockag , honestli , ” ariel said . “ i don ’ t like ransack thing . it ’ s not one of my favourit hobbi . but we prefer that to the death of our friend and famili , which is what happen the longer thi war drag on . '' both women recognis that there might be starvat in gaza , but were convinc that hama wa steal and stockpil aid rather than distribut it to peopl in need . and they were not worri about what sort of imag of israel wa be project by the scene of aid lorri be stop , ransack and set on fire . “ it ’ s time to stop care what everybodi els think , ” shira said , “ and do what ’ s necessari to protect my life , to protect my famili . ” as for the polic , ariel wa dismiss . “ they aren ’ t go to interfer if they aren ’ t certain they ’ re abl to shut it down , ” she said . “ they ’ re not go to start someth they can ’ t finish . ”