israel is weigh possibl respons to iran ' s attack with hundr of drone and missil , amid grow call for restraint to avert a wider war . israel and it alli shot down nearli all projectil fire in the first ever direct iranian attack on israel . the us ha said it will not take part in ani isra respons , to avoid an escal in region hostil . centrist isra minist benni gantz said the countri would `` exact the price `` from iran when time is right . for almost two week iran had telegraph it plan to respond to the 1 april air strike on it diplomat compound in the syrian capit , damascu , that kill sever militari advisor , includ two top gener . iran blame israel for the attack , say it wa equival to a strike on it own soil . rear admir daniel hagari , a spokesman for the isra militari , said iran fire around 300 explos drone , cruis and ballist missil , but that 99 % of them were intercept by israel , support by us , british , jordanian and other alli forc . in jerusalem , the air raid siren went off at around 01 : 45 , follow by loud blast after the air defenc intercept projectil over the citi . a map publish by the isra militari show the entir countri cover with red dot , symbolis area at risk of be hit and where resid were urg to seek shelter . the attack , in the end , had limit impact . a militari base in the south sustain minor damag , the isra militari said , and a seven - year - old isra girl wa critic wound by a missil that got through the defenc . in a phone call overnight , us presid joe biden reaffirm to isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu america ' s `` ironclad commit `` to the secur of israel , but said the us would not support an isra retali . later , a senior administr offici said israel ' s success defenc wa alreadi a victori over iran , and that the countri should `` think care `` about what it doe next . `` big question is not onli whether , but what the isra might choos to do , so thi is a decis for them , '' the offici said . tension between israel and iran have been high for decad and , sinc the start of the gaza war , iran ' s proxi in the region - such as hezbollah in lebanon and the houthi in yemen - have carri out attack on israel and on target link to israel or it alli . the overnight attack , and the possibl of an isra respons , risk put the two old enemi in open confront , and spark a flurri of intern diplomat activ aim at reduc tension . israel ' s five - member war cabinet - which includ mr gantz - met on sunday to discuss a possibl reaction , but no decis wa made amid a divis over the time and scale of ani such respons , accord to the reuter news agenc . the iranian armi chief of staff maj gen mohammad bagheri warn israel against retali , say an iranian respons would be `` much larger than [ sunday ' s ] militari action `` . despit the rhetor , iranian offici have indic not be interest in an escal of hostil . in israel , the countri seem to be return to normal on sunday . the airspac wa reopen and the airport wa again oper . `` the power of israel is that we have a shield , a defenc from these threat , '' 54 - year - old ariel said , in jerusalem . `` [ the attack ] wa expect . i hope there won ' t be a war . ''