labour ha suspend a local elect candid and withdrawn it support due to anti - israel post he appar share on social media , it is understood . abdur razaq had been run for the parti in the preston with preston grang ward on north tynesid council . the local democraci report servic understand labour took action after facebook post share last year came to light . mr razaq ha been approach for comment by the bbc . north tynesid labour did not comment . the post appear follow the 7 octob attack in israel , which trigger the war on hama in gaza . it is claim one post on 20 octob call israel a “ terrorist nation ” , while anoth share in decemb compar photo of gaza in 2023 and nazi germani in 1943 . a labour spokesperson said : “ thank to keir starmer ’ s leadership , the parti ha rip out antisemit at it root . we will continu to fight antisemit and all form of hate speech everi day of the week , it ha no place in the labour parti . ” the parti said it can not comment on individu case as disciplinari proceed are independ and confidenti . a spokesperson for north tynesid conserv said : “ local labour must now explain whi candid were not vet properli befor be put to voter . there should be a full review into how they can root out discrimin and antisemit in all of it form . '' green candid nick fitzsimon said : `` to be transpar ; i don ' t know mr razaq and i haven ' t seen the post in question , but if the report are accur , thi is clearli complet unaccept behaviour . '' independ candid cath davi said : `` i ' m stand as an independ now as it mean i can directli serv my resid instead of the parti polit that is constantli be play out in [ the ] council . '' mr razaq - list as raz razaq - will still be list as a labour candid on the ballot paper for the local elect on 2 may , as under elector law it is too late for the parti to replac him . north tynesid council wa unabl to comment . follow bbc north east on x ( formerli twitter ) , facebook and instagram . send your stori idea to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .