multipl artist say they have pull out of thi year ’ s download festiv in protest against it link with barclay . thrash metal outfit pest control and hardcor punk band scowl , speed and zulu all post to announc they would not be perform at the three - day event in leicestershir . barclaycard is list as the offici payment partner for download and campaign have accus the bank of increas it invest in arm compani that trade with israel dure the ongo war in gaza . it ha said it doesn ' t make it own invest , but that it custom do includ busi in the defenc sector . '' we can not sacrific the principl held by thi band and by the scene we come from and repres , just for person gain , '' leed - base pest control post on instagram . '' we will not take part in an event whose sponsor profit from facilit a genocid . '' israel ha vehement reject accus that it militari offens in gaza amount to a genocid . the campaign wa launch after hama attack israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and took 251 other back to gaza as hostag . the hama - run health ministri say more than 37 , 000 palestinian have been kill in gaza in the month sinc . the download act are the latest artist to pull out of an event due to link with barclay . singer cmat said she pull out of the latitud festiv in suffolk , where barclay is a headlin sponsor , becaus she `` will not allow my preciou work , my music … to get into bed with violenc `` . at brighton ' s great escap festiv in may , more than 100 artist pull out over the bank ' s involv . it ’ s not the first time scowl ha withdrawn in protest , with the band pull out of south by southwest in texa becaus of the festiv ’ s sponsorship deal with the us armi . rachel chinouriri , kneecap and lambrini girl were among act who also pull out for the same reason . download , the uk ' s biggest heavi metal and rock focus festiv , is due to take place at donnington park from 14 to 16 june . in a statement , barclay said it doe not make it own invest , but provid financi servic to busi `` includ those in the defenc sector `` . that includ compani `` that suppli defenc product to nato and other alli includ ukrain `` . they ad that `` barclay doe not directli invest in these compani `` and that `` decis on the implement of arm embargo to other nation `` should be taken by govern . bbc newsbeat ha contact barclay bank , download festiv , pest control , scowl , speed and zulu for further comment . listen to newsbeat live at 12 : 45 and 17 : 45 weekday - or listen back here .