appl ha releas a partial updat to it iphon softwar which stop the palestinian flag emoji be suggest when user type the word `` jerusalem `` . the issu had spark controversi , with critic note the name of other citi do not prompt flag emoji to appear . both israel and the palestinian hold compet claim to the ancient citi . appl previous told the bbc the flag ' s appear when jerusalem wa type had been inadvert . the issu , accord to appl , relat to unintend behaviour in a featur call predict emoji . iphon can suggest emoji when word are type in messag , and other app . user notic the flag start be suggest after the compani roll out io 17 . 4 . 1 - the latest publicli avail version of the softwar on which it mobil devic run . critic such as tv present rachel riley had demand appl explain whi the flag appear , particularli when other citi do not produc flag emoji when type . `` show doubl standard with respect to israel is a form of antisemit , '' she wrote on social media . appl ' s appar resolut is current onli in the `` develop beta `` version of io 17 . 5 releas on tuesday . the appl develop programm allow programm build app to sign up for earli releas of the softwar - call beta version - so they can test out app they are build on them . in the new updat no emoji is suggest when a user type `` jerusalem `` , in line with what happen with other citi . it ' s not clear when the updat will be releas more wide , either as a public beta , or as an finish updat to the gener public . the statu of jerusalem is one of the thorniest disput in the conflict between israel and the palestinian . israel see the whole of jerusalem as it etern , undivid capit , while palestinian claim the eastern part as the capit of their hope - for futur state . east jerusalem , along with the west bank and gaza strip , were captur by israel from jordan and egypt in a war in 1967 . they have sinc been view intern as occupi palestinian territori . there have been increas tension in the middl east sinc the 7 octob hama attack on israel , in which about 1 , 200 peopl , mostli civilian , were kill and more than 250 other were taken hostag . the subsequ isra militari oper in gaza ha kill 33 , 729 peopl , mostli civilian , accord to the hama - run health ministri .