the sudden decis by mcdonald ' s to take over ownership of it branch in israel ha thrust the franchis compani alony and it chief execut omri padan into the spotlight . mcdonald ' s will buy back all of it isra restaur after global sale slump due to a boycott of the brand over it perceiv support for israel in it war against hama in gaza . the fast - food giant use a franchis system which mean that individu oper are licens to run outlet and employ staff . but the broader compani came in for critic after mr padan offer free meal to isra forc around the start of the israel - gaza war on 7 octob . a boycott wa spark after muslim - major countri such as kuwait , malaysia and pakistan issu statement distanc themselv from the firm for what they saw as support of israel . mr padan , howev , is not new to controversi relat to the isra - palestinian conflict . in the 30 year the businessman ha been oper restaur for mcdonald ' s in israel , he ha been at the centr of a number of disput . in 2013 , the isra businessman anger israel ' s settler movement when he refus call to open a branch of the fast - food chain in the settlement of ariel in the occupi west bank . mr padan ' s compani alony wa ask to set up a restaur in a shop centr but declin , say the firm had a polici of stay out of the occupi territori . at the time , the firm said the decis had not been co - ordin with mcdonald ' s headquart in the us . israel ha built about 160 settlement hous some 700 , 000 jew sinc it occupi the west bank and east jerusalem - land the palestinian want as part of a futur state - in the 1967 middl east war . the vast major of the intern commun consid the settlement illeg under intern law , although israel disput thi . mr padan is one of the founder of the group peac now , which oppos all settlement and view them as obstacl to peac . peac now say he is no longer a member of the group , which wa found in 1978 . a leader of the yesha council , the settler ' umbrella organis , said at the time that mcdonald ' s had gone from be a for - profit compani to one with an `` anti - isra polit agenda `` . alony ' s decis resurfac in 2019 when mcdonald ' s won a tender to run a restaur and hot dog stand at israel ' s ben - gurion airport . in respons , sever letter of protest were sent by settlement leader in the west bank that call on the financ and transport ministri , as well as the israel airport author , to block the move . protest were also held outsid the fast - food chain ' s restaur in tel aviv . and on thursday , it wa abruptli announc that alony would sell the sprawl franchis back to the us food giant . the term of the deal were not disclos by mcdonald ' s , although a reput manag expert , who ha work on behalf a number of larg compani but did not want to speak on the record , said that those outrag by the decis to offer free meal to isra forc may be `` angri that thi deal make mr padan possibl a veri rich man `` . they might be pleas though , about the effect the boycott ha had . mr padan ' s departur come after mcdonald ' s said that the israel - gaza conflict had `` meaning impact `` perform in some oversea market in the fourth quarter of 2023 . for the unit that includ the middl east , china and india , sale growth stood at 0 . 7 % in the fourth quarter of 2023 - far below market expect . at the start of the year , mcdonald ' s chief execut chri kempczinski blame the backlash on `` misinform `` . the boycott wa also describ as `` dishearten and ill - found `` by the firm , which reli on thousand of independ busi to own and oper most of it more than 40 , 000 store around the world . about 5 % are locat in the middl east . the brand manag expert said : `` i get it . they are buy back the franchis to regain control but i ' m not sure they have . '' they also question where the compani might draw a line : `` doe thi mean [ mcdonald ' s ] will now need to act and offer deal in other area where reput damag ha been caus ? '' on thursday , mcdonald ' s said that it `` remain commit to the isra market and to ensur a posit employe and custom experi in the market go forward . '' it also thank alony for build the brand in israel , while mr padan said : `` we are encourag by what the futur hold . '' bbc news did not receiv further comment from mr padan or alony through mcdonald ' s .