four month after isra troop first storm gaza ' s biggest hospit , al - shifa , claim it wa a cover for a hama command and control centr , they have return . the isra militari said it had `` concret intellig `` that hama oper had regroup there . palestinian have told the bbc of their fear at be trap in fierc battl . while thi week ' s raid again highlight a desper humanitarian situat , it is also a strong remind that hama is far from a spent forc . some analyst suggest it show the desper need for a comprehens strategi to deal with the islamist arm group and a clear plan on the post - war govern of gaza . the israel defens forc ( idf ) now claim to have kill `` over 140 terrorist `` in ongo fight at al - shifa and to have made some 600 arrest , includ dozen of top hama command as well as some from islam jihad . two isra soldier have also been kill . isra report suggest that in recent week the armi found that senior hama figur had resum oper at al - shifa and that some even took their famili to the hospit . the idf say it uncov arm cach and a larg quantiti of cash at the site . hama ha deni that it fighter were base there and claim that those kill were wound patient and displac peopl . palestinian wit have told the bbc that gunfir and isra air strike have been endang patient , medic and hundr of peopl still shelter in the ground . a local journalist ha share footag of smoke billow from the complex . in anoth unverifi video , share on social media , dozen of women can be seen hunker down in a build with their children . one say : `` they took our men to an unknown place and now they ' re ask women and children to leav . we don ' t know where we ' ll go `` . in the background , an idf offic say over loudspeak : `` do not leav the build without instruct . we seek to evacu civilian without harm , as we did in other hospit in the past . '' sinc wednesday even , commun have been sever restrict , make it hard to contact medic and other at the scene . back in novemb , there were accus of possibl violat of intern law as isra tank close in on al - shifa , in the heart of gaza citi . prematur babi were among those who die as condit deterior in the besieg hospit . the idf releas surveil camera footag which show two hostag snatch from israel be taken into the hospit . after an extens search , isra troop blew up a larg tunnel with room which ran under the site and later withdrew . the isra armi went on to suggest that hama ' s region brigad and battalion in the north of the gaza strip had been disband . but soon report emerg that small cell were regroup . while hama ha undoubtedli been sever weaken by the war , there have sinc been sign that it ha been tri to restor it govern capabl , includ through polic and with some possibl involv in aid distribut . washington ha indic that israel ' s renew militari action at al - shifa hospit illustr it worri that it close alli doe not have an adequ strategi to dismantl the organis . `` israel clear shifa onc . hama came back into shifa , which rais question about how to ensur a sustain campaign against hama so that it can not regener , can not retak territori , '' the us nation secur advis , jake sullivan , said thi week . the us ha been press israel to come up with a feasibl altern for hama rule in gaza . it plan ha been to promot individu link to the intern recognis palestinian author ( pa ) and to work with arab state to prevent a power vacuum . israel previous said it wa seek to cooper with clan leader in gaza without affili to the pa or hama . now , the wall street journal ha report that isra secur offici are `` quietli develop a plan to distribut aid `` , work with palestinian leader and businessmen not link to hama . the suggest is that thi `` could eventu creat a palestinian - led govern author `` . isra media have suggest the oper at shifa hospit could last for sever day . it is not be link to the militari oper in rafah which israel insist it must carri out to win the war with hama . there ha been intern concern over the impact such an offens on the egypt border could have as more than half of the 2 . 3m resid of gaza are now displac there . `` it ' s go to happen . and it will happen even if israel is forc to fight alon , '' the isra strateg affair minist , ron dermer , told the call me back with dan senor podcast . while the idf ha formul oper plan for rafah and hand these to israel ' s govern , no order ha yet been given to execut them . it is seen as unlik that such a move will take place dure the islam holi month of ramadan , which end around 9 april . it would also take time for israel to build up the necessari forc in gaza . despit declar to the contrari , isra expert also believ that in order for a rafah oper to be effect , ultim coordin will be need with egypt and the us . `` the egyptian are on the other side of the border , '' point out retir gener amo gilad on israel ' s kan radio . `` you can ' t do anyth in rafah without coordin with the egyptian and the american . ''