heavi rain ha continu to batter gulf state , caus deadli flash flood and disrupt flight at the world ' s second - busiest airport . dubai intern airport warn of `` veri challeng condit `` and advis some passeng not to turn up due to area be inund by water . further north , a man die when hi car wa caught in flash flood . in oman , rescuer found the bodi of a girl in saham , bring the death toll in the countri to 19 sinc sunday . on wednesday , about 300 flight to and from dubai intern airport - a major hub for connect flight to everi contin - were cancel , accord to flight awar data , and hundr more were delay . the airport , which last year serv more than 80 million passeng , second onli to atlanta in the unit state , warn recoveri would take `` some time `` . on wednesday it advis against visit termin 1 without confirm from airlin and avoid trip to the airport . emir , a major intern airlin headquart in dubai , suspend check - in for passeng depart from the citi until thursday . author warn that more thunderstorm , heavi rain and strong wind were forecast , with mani low - lie area still under water . the unit arab emir , oman ' s northern neighbour , experienc on tuesday it largest rainfal event sinc record began 75 year ago . the nation centr of meteorolog announc that 254 . 8mm ( 9 . 7in ) had fallen on khatm al - shakla , in the region of al - ain , over less than 24 hour . the countri averag 140 - 200 mm of rainfal per year , while dubai typic receiv onli 97mm . the monthli averag for april is onli about 8mm . footag from the centr of dubai show dozen of submerg vehicl on a flood part of sheikh zay road , as well as long traffic jam elsewher on the 12 - lane highway . kate and andrew gold were among sever british tourist strand at the main intern airport . they had been there for 12 hour . `` i ' m tri to get on anoth flight , '' andrew , 62 , told bbc news . `` my wife , kate , is stand in anoth queue as we ' re tri to hedg our bet . '' the coupl from kent were on holiday to celebr kate ' s 60th birthday , a trip andrew say she will now `` never forget `` . `` it ha been wors i think than anyon expect , but the system within the airport ha complet fallen apart and emir , which i consid to be one of finest airlin - no staff , no inform , no coordin , no profession , no care - no disast plan at emir , it ' s weird - big compani normal plan for these event . `` it ' s been total chao . `` peopl are sleep in the loung , on the floor , food packet everywher . it ' s just been a pretti filthi experi realli . '' bbc news ha contact emir for comment . elsewher at the airport , ann wing , from rotherham , south yorkshir , wa with her husband and three children hope to fli to london heathrow . they arriv at the airport at 08 : 00 local time ( 04 : 00 gmt ) for their 11 : 25 flight , and were initi told it had been delay by an hour . `` we have spoken to no - one from emir sinc 08 : 00 thi morn , '' she said . `` passeng were shout and riot at the connect desk , there were no staff to be seen . '' `` it ' s horrif , we are squash in like anim - it is danger and inhuman , '' she ad . `` it ' s absolut ridicul here `` . she said her famili had not eaten sinc lunchtim , and all that had been provid were some `` small carton of water `` . the bbc wa also contact by passeng who were divert to anoth dubai airport , known as dubai world central , who describ similar scene and a lack of proper meal and water . no death were report in dubai , but an elderli man wa kill when hi vehicl wa swept away in a flash flood in ra al - khaimah . although the rain in dubai had eas by tuesday even , dubai intern airport warn of further disrupt , and said there wa crowd . the intens storm that began on tuesday morn and continu through most of the day forc the airport to suspend oper for 25 minut , divert sever inbound plane and cancel a number of inbound and outbound flight . video post on social media show aircraft plough through sever inch of water that complet cover the airport ' s apron and taxiway . `` we are current experienc signific disrupt due to the weather and are continu work with our emerg respons team and servic partner to restor normal oper as quickli as possibl , '' it said on x , formerli twitter . emir , one of the uae ' s two flag carrier and the world ' s largest intern airlin , told custom that check - in had been suspend at the airport for all flight until 09 : 00 on thursday . the chief execut of dubai airport , paul griffith , told local radio station dubai eye : `` in live memori , i don ' t think anyon ha ever seen condit like it . '' softwar engin kanish kumar deb barman , who becam stuck at the airport on hi way home to india , told reuter news agenc : `` there are hundr and thousand of other passeng just like me in thi airport who have been wait for 10 hour , 16 hour , some even for 24 to 30 hour . '' the uae ' s nation emerg crisi manag author did issu a warn befor the storm , tell peopl to stay at home . the govern also told it employe to work from home and privat school were also advis to carri out remot learn . in oman , more than 1 , 400 peopl have been evacu to shelter . school and govern offic have been close as a precaut . on sunday , 10 schoolchildren age between 10 and 15 and an adult were kill when their bu wa swamp by floodwat as it attempt to drive through a wadi in the al - mudhaibi area of sharqiya provinc , about 115km ( 70 mile ) south of the capit , muscat . three other children and the driver were rescu . two of them were reportedli airlift to safeti after be swept 600m ( 1 , 970ft ) from the bu . the sultan ' s council of minist said it wa `` fill with grief `` over the death and sent their condol to the victim ' famili . precipit is scarc in oman . annual averag rainfal rang from 150 to 300mm in the north , with most fall in pre - and post - monsoon storm . in the hour that follow the flood , some social media user wrongli attribut the extrem weather sole to recent cloud seed oper in the countri . cloud seed , which is when plane spray cloud with particl to make rain , ha been go on in the unit arab emir for more than 10 year . howev , expert say that at best it would have had a minor effect on the storm and that focus on cloud seed is `` mislead `` . `` the uae doe have an oper cloud seed programm to enhanc the rainfal in thi arid part of the world , howev , there is no technolog in exist that can creat or even sever modifi thi kind of rainfal event , '' said prof maarten ambaum from the univers of read . bbc weather meteorologist matt taylor also note the storm had alreadi been forecast . `` thi wa alreadi forecast to be a sever weather event . ahead of the event , comput model [ that don ' t factor in potenti cloud seed effect ] were alreadi predict well over a year ' s worth of rain to fall in around 24 hour . `` the impact were much wider than i would expect from cloud - seed alon too - sever flood impact larg area from bahrain to oman . '' the heavi rain also hit saudi arabia and bahrain , where video show car strand in flood road . mani factor contribut to flood , but a warm atmospher caus by climat chang make extrem rainfal more like . the world ha alreadi warm by about 1 . 1c sinc the industri era began and temperatur will keep rise unless govern around the world make steep cut to emiss . addit report by rozina sini and jame kelli have you been affect by the flood in dubai ? share your experi by email haveyoursay @ bbc . co . uk . pleas includ a contact number if you are will to speak to a bbc journalist . you can also get in touch in the follow way : if you are read thi page and can ' t see the form you will need to visit the mobil version of the bbc websit to submit your question or comment or you can email us at haveyoursay @ bbc . co . uk . pleas includ your name , age and locat with ani submiss .