euro 2025 group b2 qualifi - scotland v israelvenu : hampden park , glasgow date : friday , 31 may kick - off : 19 : 05 bstcoverag : watch live on bbc scotland , iplay and bbc sport websit ; follow live text commentari on bbc sport websit . scotland are set to play a qualifi doubl - header against israel over the come day amid the backdrop of the ongo conflict in gaza . the first match , at hampden park in glasgow , is on friday befor the return game in the neutral venu of budapest , hungari , on 4 june . with tension high , both women ' s euro 2025 qualifi will take place without ani fan in the stadium follow the expect of protest . but whi is the game take place ? what do those involv think ? and could there be protest ? scotland and israel were drawn togeth in group b2 of euro 2025 qualifi - alongsid serbia and slovakia - in march . have drawn in serbia and beaten the slovak at hampden in their first two game , the scot were alway schedul to host israel in back - to - back match . in the aftermath of the 7 octob attack by hama and the isra govern ' s militari respons , european footbal ' s govern bodi , uefa , decid no match in it own competit could be held in israel for secur reason . as a result , hungari ha mostli been the home of both israel ' s men ' s and women ' s footbal team in the past seven month . club side maccabi tel aviv and maccabi haifa play europa leagu and europa confer leagu game in hungari as well . that ' s whi tuesday ' s return tie with scotland is take place in budapest . despit move game out of israel , uefa ha alway been clear that isra side would continu to play match in continent competit . that ha come despit some pressur to exclud israel and it team , as uefa and fifa did to russia after it invas of ukrain in 2022 . '' there wa no such discuss or such intent from the uefa administr , '' gener secretari theodor theodoridi said in februari . '' these are two complet differ situat of two countri . '' an automat forfeit appli if a team - such as scotland - refus to play a match . uefa can also open disciplinari proceed , which could result in disqualif from the competit altogeth . fifa , which govern world footbal , is current take legal advic on a motion submit by the palestinian footbal associ to suspend israel from the sport . earlier thi month , gianni infantino - presid of world footbal ' s govern bodi , fifa - consult lawyer on whether israel ha breach it regul and delay a decis until 25 juli , when it execut committe is expect to vote . the palestinian footbal author have been back by jordan and other middl east associ . the isra fa label the move `` cynic `` . scotland head coach pedro martinez losa address the situat two week ago in a media confer after name hi squad . the spaniard said hi opinion on the subject `` doesn ' t matter `` as uefa ha sanction the match - and said hi focu is on do the job on the pitch . it wa a view echo on tuesday by goalkeep lee gibson , who wa clear that the player were guid by those make the decis . '' we just have to focu on the game itself , '' the 32 - year - old said . `` we ' re footbal and our prioriti is to make sure , when we go on the pitch , we perform . `` everyth els is dealt with by the scottish fa and uefa . '' last week , the sfa took the decis to play friday ' s game at hampden behind close door without ani fan after be `` alert to the potenti for plan disrupt to the match `` . it ad that it `` no option `` but to act `` follow extens secur consult with all key parti `` . public demonstr against israel ' s militari oper in gaza have been happen regularli across the uk . one group - the gaza genocid emerg committe - ha arrang a protest befor the game at hampden and call for the match to be cancel . polic scotland say : `` appropri polic plan are in place to maintain public safeti and minimis ani disrupt to the commun . '' tuesday ' s return game in budapest will also be play behind close door .