month of record - break rainfal are have a signific impact on the uk ' s suppli of fresh veget , accord to the nation farmer ' union . some farmer said they had been unabl to harvest veget from waterlog field , and unabl to plant crop for the summer ahead . veget buyer kevin green said it had led to an unusu high quantiti of produc be ship and flown in to hull ' s priori fruit market from around the world , includ carrot be import from israel . the met offic said rainfal in england over the past 18 month had been the highest sinc compar data began in 1836 . mr green , who buy fruit and veget for the denni butler wholesal busi near hull , said : `` it ' s been more test and harder to sourc good qualiti carrot and parsnip becaus of all the water content in thi produc . `` we ' ve need to go further afield . at the moment , we ' ve got isra carrot here . '' food produc richard beachal said it had been difficult to sow hi field with wheat at hi yorkshir wold farm becaus of floodwat . '' it ' s not just the amount of rain we ' ve had , '' he explain . `` when it dri up you onli need a coupl of millimetr of rain and you are back to squar one again . '' the problem for mani farmer is two - fold . veget are becom water - log and it ha becom difficult to drive heavi machineri for harvest or plant onto the boggi field . henri moreton , chairman of the nation farmer ' union in lincolnshir , said 150 acr ( 60 hectar ) of hi land had been flood sinc earli autumn , with some area under as much as 5m ( 15ft ) of water . he estim he had suffer six - figur loss , and seen hi oilse rape , winter wheat and barley crop decim . mr moreton said : `` we can not afford to flood farmland as we do . 60 % of farmland in thi countri is on a flood plain . `` we can ' t afford to lose that , we ' re not put bread in basket like that . '' time is now run out for mani farmer to sow crop for the summer harvest , which need to happen in the week ahead if they are to succeed . for that to happen , water level need to subsid first , mr moreton ad .