british troop could be deploy on the ground in gaza to help deliv aid via a new sea rout , the bbc ha learn . the us ha said no american forc would go ashor and an unnam `` third parti `` would drive truck along a float causeway onto the beach . the uk is understood to be consid task british troop with thi when the aid corridor open next month . whitehal sourc said no decis had been made and the issu had not yet cross the prime minist ' s desk . the ministri of defenc ( mod ) and isra armi declin to comment . britain ha been close involv in plan the sea - born aid oper and defenc secretari grant shapp said the uk continu to take `` a lead role in the deliveri of support in coordin with the us and other intern alli `` . the possibl role for british forc - known as `` wet boot `` by militari planner - would see them drive truck off land craft onto the temporari causeway and deliv aid to a secur distribut area ashor . although a huge effort would be made to protect alli forc both off and onshor , british troop would potenti face a higher risk of attack from hama and other arm group . on wednesday , a unit nation team had to take cover when mortar land near the plan distribut zone . us defenc offici confirm an american armi ship had begun work in the eastern mediterranean to build a larg float pier . aid would be deliv there from cypru on larg ship befor be transfer into truck and smaller land craft . they said the float causeway would be `` sever hundr metr long `` and anchor firmli into the sand . they said they hope the new maritim corridor - which they call the joint logist over - the - shore ( jlot ) oper - would ultim deliv up to 150 truck per day . the aim is to add to - but not replac - aid deliveri by land that are still insuffici to meet the need . on averag about 220 aid truck per day are current get into gaza by road . the israel defens forc ( idf ) ha said it will provid `` secur and logist support for the jlot initi … to enhanc the entri of humanitarian aid to the gaza strip `` . israel ' s militari will be respons for anchor the float causeway to the beach and ha been practis how to do thi with american forc further north on the isra coast . in a brief with journalist , a senior us militari offici said becaus there would be no american boot on the ground , hundr of us soldier and sailor would live and sleep at sea on a uk naval vessel , rfa cardigan bay . he also made clear us forc would not take the aid ashor and instead that role would be carri out by a `` signific partner `` . he confirm thi would be anoth nation , not a privat militari compani . `` we have a third parti who will be drive the truck down the pier , '' the us militari offici said . `` just a point of emphasi , there will be no us militari boot on the ground . so , a third parti is drive those truck . '' despit question from journalist , he refus to name the third parti . one uk sourc said noth had been decid but there wa a debat go on about `` do we put wet boot on the beach , do we drive truck onto the pier ? `` . the mod declin to comment about the suggest uk forc might drive truck ashor , but mr shapp said the crew of rfa cardigan bay were central to the uk ' s contribut , ad : `` it is critic we establish more rout for vital humanitarian aid to reach the peopl of gaza . '' he said specialist british militari plan team had been embed within the us oper hq in tampa , florida - as well as in cypru - for sever week to help develop the safest and most effect maritim rout . the uk hydrograph offic ha also share analysi of the gazan shore with us planner to develop the pier . more than six month into israel ' s militari oper in the gaza strip , over half of it popul of 2 . 2 million is cram into the southern citi of rafah . the un ha warn of a humanitarian catastroph and israel ha face intern critic for limit the amount of aid reach civilian by land . ziad issa , the head of humanitarian polici at actionaid , told bbc radio 4 ' s today programm : `` ani way to deliv aid to gaza is welcom and will help a bit , but the problem with thi way of deliv aid is it ' s go to take time and there are lot of logist uncertainti about it . '' he said it would be more effici to allow deliveri truck into gaza via land cross . truck `` load with tonn of medic suppli , with food `` are current wait to enter gaza but are not be allow in by isra forc , mr issa said - and aid worker are call for israel to perman open a land cross at erez . the hama - run health ministri in gaza say more than 34 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc the war began on 7 octob . the idf launch the offens after about 1 , 200 isra and foreign - mostli civilian - were kill and 253 other were taken back to gaza as hostag , accord to isra talli .