the first maritim humanitarian aid shipment to gaza ha been unload on to the shore . the us chariti behind the mission , world central kitchen ( wck ) , is carri out the mission in co - oper with the unit arab emir . the shipment contain 200 tonn of food desper need for gaza , which the un say is on the brink of famin . aid agenc have accus israel of imped aid deliveri , a charg vehement deni by isra offici . they say israel is allow aid through two cross in the south and ha blame aid agenc of logist failur . much of the gaza strip ha been devast dure the isra militari oper that began after hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 31 , 400 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , the hama - run health ministri say . saturday ' s shipment arriv on board spanish chariti ship open arm . it cargo includ bean , carrot , can tuna , chickpea , can corn , parboil rice , flour , oil , salt and pallet of date , which hold spiritu signific dure ramadan . it had been check by isra offici in port in cypru . it mark the start of a trial to see if the sea rout would be more effect than air and land deliveri . aid agenc have repeatedli warn that no method of relief is as effect as deliveri by land , but they say isra restrict mean a fraction of what is need is get in . in a statement , wck said : `` all cargo wa offload and is be readi for distribut in gaza . '' team work through the night to get the aid on to dri land . gaza ha no function port , so a makeshift jetti stem from the shorelin wa built by wck ' s team use rubbl from destroy build . howev , there are few detail on how the aid distribut will work , with un relief agenc have describ huge obstacl to get relief suppli to those in need . earlier , wck ' s founder , celebr chef josé andré , wrote on x ( formerli twitter ) that all the food aid from the barg had been load into 12 lorri . `` we did it ! '' he wrote , ad that thi wa a test to see if they could bring even more aid in the next shipment - up to `` thousand of ton a week `` . in a statement , the israel defens forc ( idf ) said troop had been deploy to secur the shorelin . thi deliveri ha been highli anticip sinc the ship set off from the port of larnaca on tuesday . cypriot presid niko christodoulid told journalist : `` the first ship ha start it return to cypru , and we are readi to dispatch the second ship . '' the second cargo vessel is at larnaca ' s port await a signal to sail with 240 ton of aid includ bulk product . wck said in addit it would carri two forklift and a crane to help with futur maritim deliveri to gaza . if thi sea mission is deem a success , other aid ship will like follow as part of an intern effort to get more aid into gaza . the ship would use a newli open sea rout to travel directli to the region . separ , the us is plan to build it own float dock off the coast to boost sea deliveri . the white hous say it could see two million meal a day enter gaza , but while a militari ship is en rout with equip on board to build the dock , question remain about the logist of the plan . the world food programm had to temporarili paus it land deliveri after convoy came under gunfir and loot . and an air drop turn deadli last week when five peopl were reportedli kill when a parachut fail and they were hit by the aid packag . the un ha warn that famin is `` almost inevit `` in gaza without urgent action , and the eu ' s foreign polici chief joseph borrel ha accus israel of creat a `` manmad `` disast and use starvat as a weapon of war . the isra armi ha continu it attack across the gaza strip with report of at least 36 peopl kill after a hous near the nuseirat refuge camp in central gaza wa struck . it come as israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu approv plan for an assault on the southern citi of rafah , which is shelter more than a million displac peopl . negoti for a ceasefir in gaza are due to resum on sunday . on friday , israel dismiss hama ' s latest propos . hama said it gave mediat a `` comprehens vision `` of a truce , but mr netanyahu call thi `` unrealist `` . israel ' s spi chief , david barnea , is expect to meet qatar ' s prime minist and egyptian offici in doha on sunday to iron out `` the remain gap between israel and hama `` .