the funer of an aid worker kill in an air strike in gaza ha taken place in cornwal . jim henderson , 33 , wa among seven aid worker who die in the isra attack in april . one of hi brother , matt , said : `` he ' s achiev so much in hi life in a short period of time . '' cousin , helen moran , spoke on behalf of mr henderson ' s parent and thank the hundr of peopl who gather to pay their respect at truro cathedr . ms moran said : `` the famili ha been deepli move by the outpour of support dure thi difficult time . '' thi support ha been a sourc of comfort and a remind of the impact jim had upon so mani peopl . '' a son , a fianc , a brother and a friend , leav us at such a young age is alway a tragedi . '' to lose someon of jame ' s extraordinari charact and decenc overshadow the pain . '' about 700 peopl attend hi funer . sever bearer of mr henderson ' s coffin were in the royal marin 40 commando unit with him and paid tribut befor the servic began at 12 : 00 bst . jordan mcgrath work alongsid mr henderson in a counter - insurg oper in afghanistan in 2012 . he said : `` you could alway look to jim for reassur or strength if you need it . he wa a real pillar of the troop . '' it wa brilliant to know you ' ve got guy like jim with you . `` he wa incred . he just embodi what it meant to be a royal marin commando - courag , determin , unselfish . '' andrew campbel wa also deploy to afghanistan with mr henderson . he said : `` jim had the heart of a warrior , the soul of a humanitarian . '' it wa in hi natur to help peopl who couldn ' t help themselv . '' daniel christoph birk , who train mr henderson in 2010 and led the troop he wa assign to in afghanistan , said : `` he wa such a tower of strength , kind of like the model recruit . '' mr henderson ' s role as a secur advis for the world central kitchen wa to ensur an aid convoy travel in gaza follow safeti procedur and remain on the correct rout . the former royal marin had been in gaza for just over a week . mr henderson ' s brother dan said : `` i don ' t realli think we knew how wide a scope of jim ' s friend and peopl that he had real connect with until someth like thi happen ... it make us veri proud . '' the famili had ask peopl who want to pay their respect to line the rout and join them in the cathedr . bishop hugh nelson said the servic mark a farewel and `` the celebr of a good life well - live `` . childhood friend harri - jame mill describ mr henderson as `` a forc to be reckon with , an absolut warrior , an incred friend `` . '' although we bid farewel to you let us take solac in know that you will never truli leav us for as long as we carri you in our heart . `` you will alway be by our side . '' jame henderson - our friend , our brother , our hero - you will live on , and your legaci will forev shine bright . '' rest in peac , dear friend , we will never forget you . '' follow bbc cornwal on x ( formerli twitter ) , facebook and instagram . send your stori idea to spotlight @ bbc . co . uk .