airlin passeng are face cancel or disrupt to flight to israel and surround countri after iran ' s airstrik at the weekend . easyjet ha suspend flight to and from tel aviv up to and includ sunday , 21 april . wizz air said it would resum journey to israel on tuesday , 16 april after stop flight to tel aviv on sunday and monday . howev , it warn : `` passeng may experi some schedul chang . '' wizz air said that it wa `` close monitor the situat with the relev author and keep it passeng inform of all schedul chang `` . `` all passeng affect by the schedul chang will be provid with rebook or refund option , '' it ad . israel close it airspac on saturday even after iran launch it first - ever direct assault on the countri . iran launch drone and missil toward israel in retali for a strike on tehran ' s consul in damascu on 1 april , which kill a number of senior iranian command . israel ha not said it carri out the consul strike , but is wide believ to have been behind it . israel reopen it airspac earli on sunday morn as did jordan , iraq and lebanon , which had stop flight for a period . german airlin group lufthansa said that it had suspend flight to and from tel aviv , erbil and amman up to and includ monday , but said they would re - start on tuesday . howev , it said that flight to beirut and tehran would remain suspend until at least 18 april . a spokesperson said : `` the lufthansa group had alreadi decid on friday , 12 april , to fli around iranian airspac up to and includ thursday , 18 april , and thu temporarili suspend flight to tehran . '' meanwhil , klm cancel all flight to and from tel aviv until tuesday . other airlin are re - rout their flight which could add time to journey . australia ' s qanta said it plane are chang cours to avoid iran ' s airspac . virgin atlant said : `` we are not current overfli iraq , iran , or israel , but we continu to monitor the situat for ani potenti impact on our oper . `` the safeti and secur of our custom and peopl is paramount and alway will be . we apologis for ani inconveni caus to custom by slightli longer flight time . '' the airlin stop fli to israel last year but a spokesperson said it wa aim to resum journey in septemb . british airway said there would be a flight to tel aviv on monday , but ad it wa keep the situat under review . the uk flag carrier , which is own by intern airlin group ( iag ) , restart flight to israel earlier thi month after suspend journey last octob . it had been oper four flight a week to israel sinc the begin of april . plane stop at larnaca in cypru where there is a crew chang to avoid staff stay overnight in tel aviv . the flight then oper non - stop from tel aviv to the uk . iberia express , also own by iag , cancel flight to tel aviv on sunday and monday . finnair said that it had suspend oper over iranian airspac until further notic . flight from doha will re - rout over egypt which , a spokesperson said , would result in delay of a `` few minut `` . the european union aviat safeti agenc ( easa ) reiter it previou guidanc to airlin to use caution in isra and iranian airspac . `` the european commiss and easa will continu to close monitor the situat to assess ani potenti safeti risk for eu aircraft oper and be readi to act as appropri , '' it said . qatar airway said it had resum flight to iran , fli to tehran , mashhad , shiraz and isfahan . `` the safeti and secur of our passeng remain our top prioriti , '' it said . have your flight been affect becaus of concern rais here ? you can get in touch by email haveyoursay @ bbc . co . uk . pleas includ a contact number if you are will to speak to a bbc journalist . you can also get in touch in the follow way : if you are read thi page and can ' t see the form you will need to visit the mobil version of the bbc websit to submit your question or comment or you can email us at haveyoursay @ bbc . co . uk . pleas includ your name , age and locat with ani submiss .