the mother of an isra - american man be held in gaza ha told the bbc that israel and hama must urgent agre a new ceasefir and hostag releas deal . rachel goldberg - polin ' s son hersh , who turn 23 four day befor he wa kidnap from the nova festiv on 7 octob , wa seen in captiv in a new video releas last week . she describ how she felt when she first watch it . `` as soon as i heard hi voic i start to cri , becaus i haven ' t heard hi voic in half a year . `` to see him move , and to see that he is clearli medic compromis , and that he ' s fragil . hi father jon and i were both just cri , and i wa hold my heart . '' `` i don ' t even know what i wa say . i wa just make nois and cri , and jon wa cri `` . hersh goldberg - polin wa at the nova music festiv in a forest area close to the gaza strip when hama - led gunmen storm israel ' s border fenc , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag , accord to isra talli . more than 360 of those kill were attend the festiv event . hersh manag to get sever kilometr away from the festiv site in a car , befor seek refug in a roadsid bomb shelter with sever dozen other . but outsid , hama gunmen gather and began throw in grenad . befor wednesday , the last time he had been seen aliv wa in a hama video that show him be load on to a pick - up truck , with part of hi left arm miss . in the new video , post to hama ' s telegram account , hersh lift hi arm to the camera to show a heal stump where hi hand should be . he criticis israel ' s militari campaign in gaza befor speak directli to hi parent and two sister , urg them to keep campaign for hi releas . `` we ' re clearli veri concern about the injuri , '' mr goldberg - polin told me . `` we ' ve had sever surgeon who have seen the video that say he need anoth surgeri immedi . if he wa treat , it wa an emerg treatment . he need a second surgeri at least . '' `` he is consid in a fragil and compromis medic state , and so we ' re concern about that . '' as a 23 - year - old man , hersh would not be expect to be includ in the next batch of hostag whose releas is be discuss , which includ woman and the elderli . but those with medic condit also fall into the categori to be freed , and so the famili hope that he will be includ - although they have not had ani confirm . mr goldberg - polin say she is schedul to meet the us secretari of state , antoni blinken , on hi latest visit to israel , which it is hope will give further impetu to the negoti . she had a clear messag for all of the parti involv . `` i think that everyon here ha leverag . everyon is use their leverag . but are they use it to the maximum ? the answer is clearli no . becaus we still have 133 peopl there in gaza . `` i am hope and optimist . i ' m realli pray that all the parti , everyon decid that they ' re go to be courag , be dare , and put an end to all the suffer in thi region `` . it is expect that hama will respond to the latest isra propos in the next 24 hour . the hope is that it can provid a foundat to negoti a concret deal , and not be reject outright . the detail are yet to be offici confirm but are believ to involv the releas of 33 hostag dure a five to six week ceasefir . an as - yet - unspecifi number of palestinian prison would be releas from isra jail . there is also believ to be a commit to discuss a futur end point for the war . but even as those discuss continu , israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu say he is plan a ground offens in rafah regardless of the outcom . around 1 . 4 million displac palestinian are shelter there after flee their home dure the heavi fight in northern and central part of gaza . more than 34 , 500 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc 7 octob , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . israel ha been conduct a militari campaign to destroy hama and free the hostag . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 hostag - most of them women and children - in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail .