israel ' s prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha insist there will be no perman ceasefir in gaza until hama ’ s militari and govern capabl are destroy and all hostag are releas . hi statement come after us presid joe biden announc israel had propos a three - stage plan to hama aim at reach a perman ceasefir . a senior hama politician ha told the bbc it `` will go for thi deal `` if israel doe . the negoti come as fight continu in rafah , with report of isra air strike on saturday in the citi on egypt ' s border with gaza . there is no guarante that the public pressur by mr biden on both israel and hama to accept the plan will result in a deal . in statement on saturday , mr netanyahu ' s offic said israel ' s `` condit for end the war have not chang `` . it list these as `` the destruct of hama militari and govern capabl , the free of all hostag and ensur that gaza no longer pose a threat to israel `` . the statement ad israel would `` continu to insist these condit are met `` befor agre to a perman ceasefir , emphasis that no deal could be sign befor meet them . on friday , mr biden describ the plan as a comprehens isra propos that pave the way for a perman ceasefir . the first phase would includ a full and complet ceasefir , the withdraw of isra forc from popul area and the exchang of some hostag for palestinian prison . thi would then be follow by the return of all remain live hostag , includ male soldier . the final phase would see the remain of ani deceas isra hostag return , as well as a `` major reconstruct plan `` with us and intern assist to rebuild home , school and hospit , mr biden said . a total end to the conflict ha been a key hama demand to engag in talk . follow mr netanyahu ' s restat of hi aim for the war , a spokesman for hama said it would back the plan if israel did . basem naim , a member of hama ' s polit bureau base in qatar , told the bbc world servic ' s newshour programm that the organis welcom the plan , but the next step reli on israel . in respons to mr netanyahu ' s statement , he note israel ' s aim might not have chang , but it also had not achiev them . '' if he tri to continu , he will not find anyth except the readi of the palestinian - all palestinian - to resist the occup , '' mr naim said . biden unveil isra propos to end gaza waral eye on rafah : post share by more than 47m peopl the propos laid out by mr biden seem to give the opportun for both israel and hama to say that their demand had been met . for hama , it explicitli pave the way for a perman ceasefir , which ha been a key demand of the group for ani deal . it want a guarante that the isra militari will not return to gaza after the hostag are releas , and the offer doe just that . thi will , without a doubt , face opposit in israel . mr biden tri to address those concern by say that hama had been so degrad that it did not have the abil to carri out anoth major attack on israel . he acknowledg , howev , that not everyon in israel would accept the deal , but urg the govern to resist pressur . those who are like to be against the plan includ far - right member of mr netanyahu ’ s coalit , who have previous threaten to quit in case of ani deal that would see the end of the war befor the destruct of hama . thi could lead to the end of the netanyahu govern . but one of israel ' s most influenti opposit politician , yair lapid , ha promis to back mr netanyahu if he support the ceasefir deal . in a post on social media , mr lapid told the isra pm that he `` ha our safeti net for a hostag deal `` if far - right alli like nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir and financ minist bezalel smotrich leav the govern . the statement from mr netanyahu ' s offic seem to be vagu enough for him to be abl to claim that hi object had been achiev . interestingli , it did not talk about “ total victori ” - which he ha repeatedli said wa the aim of the isra militari in gaza . thi omiss may allow mr netanyahu to reject critic that the deal offer major concess to hama . israel ha ramp up attack in the key citi of rafah in recent week , claim oper control over the entir border with egypt . us , isra and egyptian offici are due to meet in cairo on sunday to discuss reopen the rafah cross , accord to egyptian media report . aid flow into gaza have been restrict sinc the border wa shut in earli may , after isra forc seiz control of it as part of their offens to take control of gaza ' s southern border . more than 36 , 000 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc the start of the conflict , accord to the hama - run health ministri . the war began in octob when hama gunmen launch an unpreced attack on israel , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 back to gaza as hostag .