mani palestinian are flee eastern part of rafah , after the isra militari order their evacu befor start an oper in the southern gaza citi . on monday the militari told the ten of thousand of peopl affect to begin head toward an “ expand humanitarian area `` to the north , where it said they would find field hospit , tent and basic suppli . but palestinian warn that the area wa made up of neighbourhood that were alreadi overcrowd and lack in essenti servic , were still come under intens bombard , or had been left in ruin by recent fight . almost seven month into it war against hama , senior isra govern and militari figur have insist that victori is imposs without a full - scale ground assault on rafah . but israel ’ s closest alli , the us , ha said it ha yet to see a credibl plan to protect the more than a million displac palestinian shelter there - half of them children . in march , the israel defens forc ( idf ) said it wa intend to evacu most , if not all , of the civilian in rafah ahead of major offens and send them to “ humanitarian island ” in central gaza where aid and tent would be provid . it appear that plan wa be at least partli put into action , when the idf announc the evacu of eastern rafah and the “ expans of the humanitarian area ” in nearbi al - mawasi as part of it prepar for ground oper there . “ thi expand humanitarian area includ field hospit , tent and increas amount of food , water , medic and addit suppli , ” an idf statement said . an idf spokesperson said the evacu would be “ gradual ” and affect an estim 100 , 000 resid and displac peopl . howev , a palestinian red crescent offici put the figur at 250 , 000 and a un offici said mani other would be on the move becaus they fear thi wa onli “ the first phase in a longer oper ” . flyer drop by isra aircraft over rafah on monday featur a map that identifi nine area block in south - eastern rafah , includ al - shokat , al - salam , al - jneineh , tabbet zarei and al - yarmouk , as well as open land around the isra - control kerem shalom and egyptian - control rafah border cross . the un said the evacu zone cover more than 30 sq km ( 12 sq mile ) and wa home to nine site shelter displac peopl , as well as three clinic and six warehous . the flyer instruct all resid to evacu immedi and head toward an approxim 60 sq km area stretch north along the mediterranean coast from al - mawasi - a narrow strip of agricultur land that ha long been an idf - design “ humanitarian zone ” - to the citi of khan youni and the central town of deir al - balah . the idf did not provid ani detail about the locat of the tent for the peopl be evacu , but in recent week satellit imag have shown sever encamp construct north of rafah and west of khan youni . moham daoud said the 35 member of hi famili live had “ no choic but to leav ” after find out that their hous in the oraiba area wa insid the evacu zone . “ we do not know where to go and how we will manag , ” he told the bbc . rasha sheikh khalil , a displac woman live in a tent in rafah with her husband and four children , said : “ i had start prepar my bag and get readi to return to my neighbourhood in gaza citi , but the bad news [ on monday ] surpris us . ” “ no - one care about our fate . for seven month we have not tast comfort and tranquil . ” ghada el - kurd , a mother - of - two who ha been displac six time over the last four month , told the bbc that she wa live onli 15 minut away from one of the evacu area but wa stay put for now . “ i ’ m so confus ... i have no place to go . thi wa the last place i know , ” she said . “ if i want to come back to khan youni there is no place - it is all destroy . [ as for ] area of al - mawasi , they are crowd and i can not ani more live insid a tent - it ’ s so hot and my health doe not allow me to be in such a situat . regard deir al - balah ... there are a lot of air strike there ... and it is a veri danger area . ” the un said it wa “ not take part in involuntari evacu or in the set up of ani displac zone ” . but jame elder , a spokesman for the un children ’ s agenc , unicef , who wa in gaza last month , said ghada el - kurd ’ s assess of the idf ’ s humanitarian area wa “ absolut spot on ” . '' there ' s nowher to go . khan youni , let ' s be clear , is rubbl , ” he told the bbc . “ i ' ve walk around those street of khan youni . it ' s not a littl bit destroy , it ' s utterli devast . ” “ deir al - balah ... ha now got raw sewag run through the street becaus sanit ha just been devast , and al - mawasi is a beach , a sandi area , and we ' re start to hit summer . ” “ we ' ve alreadi had report of children die of dehydr . so when we ' re told that peopl should move to humanitarian zone , that ' s a terrifi ironi when humanitarian aren ' t work in these zone . '' but , he ad : “ of cours , famili will move . they will move becaus they will move or be bomb . ” mr elder said the aid oper in gaza wa alreadi veri fragil becaus it wa “ continu undermin by bomb , by insecur , by denial of access ” , but that an isra offens in rafah could push it to break point . un offici are particularli concern that the rafah and kerem shalom cross - the key entri point for aid into gaza - could be close dure the current isra oper in eastern gaza . kerem shalom wa shut on sunday after four isra soldier there were kill by 10 rocket launch by hama fighter from an area near the rafah cross , accord to the idf . but israel ’ s prime minist told the us presid on monday that he would ensur kerem shalom reopen for humanitarian assist . kerem shalom wa still close on tuesday morn , when the idf announc that it troop had `` obtain oper control `` of the gazan side of the rafah cross . the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa - which run the largest humanitarian oper in gaza - ha said it will maintain a presenc in rafah as long as possibl and would continu provid lifesav aid . but it ha also warn that the continu interrupt of the entri of aid and fuel suppli at the rafah cross would `` halt the critic humanitarian respons `` across gaza . '' the catastroph hunger face by peopl especi in northern gaza will get much wors if these suppli rout are interrupt , '' the agenc said in a post on x , formerli twitter , on tuesday . the idf ha said it is commit to facilit humanitarian aid into and within gaza and that it ha establish altern cross , includ two in the north .