an iranian billionair convict of steal nearli three billion dollar ha had hi death sentenc commut to a 20 - year jail term . babak zanjani wa convict in 2016 of pocket money from the oil ministri to circumv us sanction on iran . he said he had been unabl to hand over the cash becaus of sanction on him . the news come after iran ' s judiciari said mr zanjani had agre to work with author and hi oversea asset had been transfer to iran . the announc wa made by a spokesperson for iran ' s judiciari , asghar jahangir , on tuesday , accord to the judiciari - run mizan news agenc . mr jahangir said the decis wa taken after a request by the head of tehran ' s justic depart , and approv by iran ' s judiciari chief and the countri ' s suprem leader , ayatollah ali khamenei . iranian media have been specul over mr zanjani ' s possibl releas after the judiciari announc in februari that mr zanjani had agre to work with the author , and that hi asset abroad had been identifi and transfer to iran . initi assess were that the billionair ' s oversea asset were `` suffici to pay hi debt and damag `` , the head of iran ' s judiciari wa report as say in februari . mr zanjani wa one of iran ' s wealthiest men , and at one point control a network of more than 60 compani involv in everyth from cosmet product to oil and bank . at one stage he valu himself at around $ 13 . 5bn ( â £ 9 . 5bn ) , a huge figur especi for a businessman oper in a countri where most of the economi is own by the state and the privat sector is restrict . he wa one of the most high - profil iranian busi figur to be target with asset freez by the us and the eu for hi role in help the iranian govern evad sanction to sell oil abroad dure the presid of mahmoud ahmadinejad . the sanction at the time were part of a drive by the intern commun to put pressur on the govern in tehran over it controversi nuclear programm . mr zanjani wa arrest in 2013 for withhold $ 2 . 7bn ( â £ 2 . 2bn ) of govern money , and in 2016 wa found guilti of `` corrupt on earth `` - a capit offenc use by iranian judiciari system to punish convict on a rang of charg .