million of peopl in gaza are on the brink of famin as they struggl to access food . the unit nation ( un ) ha also warn that the ongo conflict in sudan could trigger the world ' s largest hunger crisi . famin occur when a countri ha such a sever food shortag that it popul face acut malnutrit , starvat , or death . the statu is gener declar by the unit nation ( un ) , sometim in conjunct with the countri ' s govern , and often alongsid other intern aid organis or humanitarian agenc . it is decid use a un scale call the integr food secur phase classif ( ipc ) . thi rank a countri ' s food shortag - or insecur - against five `` phase `` of sever , with famin the fifth and worst . for a famin to be offici declar , three thing need to happen in a specif geograph area : accord to the un , famin is immin in northern gaza , and could occur ani time up to may 2024 . it follow month of conflict between israel and hama in gaza after the 7 octob hama attack on israel . half the popul - about 1 . 1m peopl - are starv , accord to the ipc classif . in the worst - case scenario , the entir popul of gaza will be in famin by juli 2024 . the un said gaza had the `` highest share of peopl face high level of acut food insecur that the ipc initi ha ever classifi for ani given area or countri `` . it most senior human right offici , volker türk , told the bbc that israel bore signific blame for the crisi in gaza , and there wa a `` plausibl `` case that it wa use starvat as a weapon of war . israel ha vehement deni thi . oxfam ha accus israel of `` deliber block and / or undermin the intern humanitarian respons in the gaza strip `` . it warn that peopl live in gaza `` will suffer mass death from diseas and starvat far beyond the current 31 , 000 palestinian war casualti , '' unless israel chang it approach . the un ha increas pressur on israel to fulfil it legal respons to protect palestinian civilian and allow adequ suppli of humanitarian aid into the region . israel insist it wa let in all the aid offer , and accus agenc of fail to distribut it . elsewher , un offici warn that the ongo conflict in sudan ha plung the countri into `` one of the worst humanitarian nightmar in recent histori `` , which could trigger the world ' s largest hunger crisi . accord to the un ' s world food programm ( wfp ) , nearli 18 million peopl in sudan are face acut food insecur as a result of the civil war which broke out in april 2023 . unicef said it had seen malnutrit among young children `` beyond the worst project `` , as well as outbreak of cholera , measl and malaria . the humanitarian organis action against hunger said sever other countri also have `` veri concern level of hunger `` . these includ afghanistan , the democrat republ of congo , ethiopia , pakistan , somalia , syria and yemen . in march 2024 , the wfp warn that haiti - which is experienc a sever polit and econom crisi amidst spiral gang violenc - wa `` on the edg of a devast hunger crisi `` . about 1 . 4m peopl there are categoris as be on the verg of famin , with anoth three million at the level below . the ipc ' s descript of haiti ' s food secur situat is `` alarm `` . accord to the ipc , famin and extrem food crise have multipl caus , which can be man - made , natur - driven , or a combin of both . action against hunger said conflict remain the `` key driver of hunger around the world `` . in sudan , it blame the war for insuffici food product and result high price . it also said the ongo conflict in gaza wa prevent lifesav food , fuel and water enter the territori . the ipc highlight humanitarian organis ' `` near - complet lack of access `` to most of gaza . the intern rescu committe ( irc ) said drought and crop failur caus by extrem weather event as a result of climat chang were lead to widespread food shortag , particularli in east africa . el niño - a climat pattern that describ the unusu warm of surfac water in the pacif ocean - ha alreadi impact food suppli in southeast asia and latin america . the declar of famin doe not unlock specif fund . howev , it often trigger a larg intern respons from other un agenc and intern govern , who can provid food suppli and emerg fund . some humanitarian agenc like the irc provid malnutrit treatment . oxfam ha work with partner in gaza to distribut voucher and cash for food and hygien item . the wfp is work in sudan to restor infrastructur like road and school . it also ha mobil respons team that travel to remot area to deliv food and other assist . mani agenc typic start to plan and deliv aid befor a famin ha been declar in order to avoid the worst effect - usual when a countri ha been given a phase three classif or abov . the last time famin wa offici declar wa in south sudan in 2017 . nearli 80 , 000 peopl face starvat and anoth million were on the brink of famin after three year of civil war . at the time , the un blame the effect of war on agricultur . farmer lost livestock , crop product wa sever curtail , and inflat soar . previou famin includ southern somalia in 2011 , southern sudan in 2008 , gode in the somali region of ethiopia in 2000 , north korea in 1996 , somalia in 1991 - 1992 and ethiopia in 1984 - 1985 . between 1845 and 1852 , ireland suffer a period of starvat , diseas and emigr that becam known as the great famin . about one million peopl are thought to have die when the countri ' s potato crop - which fed a third of the popul - wa destroy by diseas . food export continu to great britain , which rule the island of ireland at the time .