the first shipment of humanitarian aid ha arriv in gaza via a temporari float pier , the us militari ha confirm . us central command said aid truck had begun move ashor at about 09 : 00 local time ( 07 : 00 bst ) on friday . prime minist rishi sunak said 8 , 400 plastic shelter had been deliv . about 500 tonn of british aid includ tent , hygien kit and forklift truck is expect to reach gaza via the pier , built by us arm forc , in the come week . howev , mr sunak said the maritim rout wa `` not the onli answer `` to the humanitarian crisi in the enclav . '' we need to see more land rout open , includ via the rafah cross , to ensur much more aid get safe to civilian in desper need of help . '' uk foreign secretari lord cameron said : `` gazan are at risk of famin and in desper need of suppli - israel must ensur land rout are open and that aid get safe to where it is need . '' both mr sunak and lord cameron reiter call for the isra to meet their commit to allow at least 500 aid truck a day into gaza , where about 2 . 2 million peopl are in urgent need of food , shelter and other assist . also on friday , white hous nation secur spokesman john kirbi said us aid wa arriv in cypru . `` it will be screen by isra author and load on to ship for deliveri via the maritim corridor and would be load onto ship bound for gaza , '' he told report . he ad that it wa import that the rafah cross - which israel seiz last week - should `` open immedi `` . israel and egypt blame each other for it closur . the pier is expect to provid access for 90 truckload of aid at first , increas to 150 onc it is fulli oper . british personnel have been work with us counterpart aboard rfa cardigan bay to build and oper the pier . the us began build the float base week ago to facilit the deliveri of aid to gaza as israel continu it militari campaign against hama . hundr of tonn of aid arriv in cypru on wednesday where it wa screen befor be load on to ship for deliveri to the pier . smaller us militari vessel - capabl of carri between five and 15 lorri of aid - then transport it to the float pier , which is sever hundr metr long and fix to the beach in gaza . the lorri travel along the pier befor drop off the aid at a marshal yard on the beach . author said that the un , primarili the world food programm , would be respons for the onward distribut of aid . the isra offens began after hama gunmen burst into southern israel on 7 octob , kill 1 , 200 peopl and take 252 other back to gaza as hostag . more than 35 , 000 palestinian have been kill sinc then , accord to the hama - run health ministri figur . mr kirbi also said that 17 us doctor who had been stuck in gaza sinc israel took control of the rafah cross had been abl to leav . they were evacu on friday through the kerem shalom cross , us diplomat are quot as say . that cross wa also shut by israel last week , but later reopen . deliveri to gaza have consider slow down . send aid by land can be danger , with convoy at time loot by gang and mob by desper civilian . in april , seven aid worker from the organis world central kitchen were kill by an isra drone strike .