a dual us - isra citizen who wa earlier believ to be held hostag by jihadist wa actual kill in the 7 octob hama attack , accord to the israel defens forc . itay chen wa a soldier for the idf serv near the gaza border . the 19 - year - old ' s bodi wa taken by hama after he wa kill and remain in gaza , the idf said on tuesday . more than 100 isra hostag are still thought to be held aliv by hama . the war began when hama gunmen attack southern israel on 7 octob , kill about 1 , 200 peopl and seiz 253 hostag . more than 31 , 000 palestinian have been kill in israel ' s retaliatori air strike and it ongo ground offens , the hama - run health ministri say . presid joe biden said he and first ladi jill biden were devast to learn of chen ' s pass . `` today , our heart are heavi , '' he said in a statement . `` i reaffirm my pledg to all the famili of those still held hostag : we are with you . we will never stop work to bring your love one home . '' mr biden said chen ' s father and brother came to the white hous in decemb to `` share the agoni and uncertainti they ' ve face as they pray for the safe return of their love one `` . `` no one should have to endur even one day of what they have gone through , '' mr biden said . in a statement , the hostag and miss famili forum said it share `` in the profound grief of the chen famili `` . `` itay love the land , go on hike , and wa a senior instructor in youth movement - a salt of the earth person , '' the group wrote on x . chen had decid to work at hi base on the gaza border on 7 octob to get time off for hi brother ' s bar mitzvah , a ceremoni that mark the transit into jewish adulthood . hi famili lost commun with him after he told them hi base wa under attack . `` no one ha been abl to physic locat him - he is not in hospit , not on the deceas list , '' hi father rubi chen , said at a news confer after the attack . one hundr and thirti four peopl are still be held hostag by hama in gaza , includ 34 who are believ to be dead , isra govern spokesperson eylon levi wrote on tuesday in a post on x , formerli known as twitter . hope that a 40 - day ceasefir agreement could be reach befor the start of the islam month of ramadan thi week have fade . dure a week - long ceasefir in late novemb , 105 hostag - most of them women and children - were freed in return for some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . israel say there have been 590 isra militari casualti sinc 7 octob .