presid joe biden ha warn israel that the us will stop suppli some weapon if it launch a major ground oper in the gaza citi of rafah . `` if they go into rafah , i ' m not suppli the weapon that have been use histor to deal with rafah , '' he said dure an interview with cnn . he ad that he would `` continu to make sure israel is secur `` . despit firm and vocal us opposit , israel appear pois to mount a larg - scale invas of rafah . the congest part of southern gaza is hama ' s last major stronghold in the territori . us offici have warn that an oper in the citi - where the popul ha swell with refuge from other part of gaza - could lead to extens civilian casualti . `` we ' re not go to suppli the weapon and artilleri shell , '' mr biden said in the interview , which air on wednesday . israel ' s ambassador to the un said the countri wa `` veri disappoint `` by mr biden ' s intervent . `` if israel is restrict from enter an area as import and central as rafah where there are thousand of terrorist , hostag and leader of hama , how exactli are we suppos to achiev our goal ? '' he said on public radio . mr biden told cnn that the us did not defin the current situat in rafah as a ground oper . `` they haven ' t gone into the popul centr . what they did is right on the border , '' he said . `` but i ' ve made it clear to [ isra prime minist netanyahu ] and the war cabinet , they ' re not go to get our support , if in fact they go in these popul centr . '' mr biden acknowledg that us weapon had been use by israel to kill civilian in gaza . when ask if israel had cross a `` red line `` , the us presid repli `` not yet `` . the comment amount to the presid ' s strongest warn yet over a potenti ground invas of rafah , and mark the first time he ha said the us could stop shipment of american weapon to israel . the us ha alreadi delay a shipment of thousand of bomb to israel , and ha said it is review futur deliveri . on wednesday , defenc secretari lloyd austin confirm the delay of the bomb shipment - some of the most destruct munit in western militari arsen - while testifi in front of the senat . the weapon be held back by the us are relat to a futur deliveri , so the move is unlik to have an immedi impact . but given the rate at which israel is bomb it will probabl affect futur strike fairli soon . the isra militari , meanwhil , ha said that the two countri will resolv disagr `` behind close door `` . presid biden face mount domest pressur - from some democrat and part of the us public - to rein in isra oper in gaza amid rise civilian death and a worsen humanitarian situat . with novemb ' s presidenti elect loom , opinion poll indic mani young voter and arab - american in key state such as michigan are critic of what they see as the presid ' s support for the isra war effort . us offici confirm that no new aid suppli had been deliv in gaza via two gate in the south sinc isra tank roll into southern rafah and took control of the palestinian side of the cross with egypt thi week . rafah ha been a key entri point for aid , and the onli exit for peopl abl to flee , sinc the start of the war between israel and hama last octob . the cross remain close on wednesday morn , but the isra militari said it wa reopen the nearbi kerem shalom cross , which had been close for four day becaus of hama rocket fire . on monday , the isra militari order ten of thousand of civilian to begin evacu eastern part of rafah citi , ahead of what it call a `` limit `` oper to elimin hama fighter and dismantl infrastructur . meanwhil , effort continu to reach a ceasefir , alongsid the releas of isra hostag and palestinian prison . in cairo , deleg from israel and hama have resum negoti through mediat . a us offici said that talk with israel were `` ongo and have not fulli address our concern `` and the us had been review it weapon transfer to israel sinc april . israel launch a campaign to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag , accord to isra talli . more than 34 , 780 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . a deal agre in novemb saw hama releas 105 hostag in return for a week - long ceasefir and some 240 palestinian prison in isra jail . israel say 128 hostag are unaccount for , 36 of whom are presum dead . addit report by raffi berg