a palestinian man ha been arrest over the murder of a 14 - year - old isra boy , whose disappear from an outpost in the occupi west bank spark a deadli rampag by settler . benjamin achimeir went miss on 12 april after go to herd sheep near the palestinian villag of mughayir . as the search went on , settler torch home in mughayir and shot a resid . achimeir ' s bodi wa found a day later . the isra militari said he had been kill in a `` terrorist attack `` . at least four palestinian were kill as settler violenc spread to nearbi area over the follow day . in one incid a 17 - year - old boy , omar hame , wa kill after be hit by a bullet in the head in an attack by a group of 30 settler who had been accompani by isra forc , palestinian offici said . it wa not clear whether he wa shot by isra forc or settler . on monday israel ' s shin bet secur agenc , isra polic and the isra militari said ahm dawabsha , 21 , had been arrest overnight for benjamin achimeir ' s murder and had `` link himself to the attack `` . ahm dawabsha wa from the villag of duma , the statement said . the villag - which like mughayir is locat north of the citi of ramallah - is where a settler murder three member of a palestinian famili in an arson attack in 2015 . in 2020 amiram ben uliel wa convict of three count of murder for throw a firebomb into the home of saad and riham dawabsha , kill them and their 18 - month - old son ali , and leav four - year - old ahm with sever injuri . howev there wa no known connect between the arrest man ahm dawabsha and the victim of the arson , isra media report . around 700 , 000 isra live in 160 settlement alongsid 2 . 7 million palestinian in the occupi west bank and east jerusalem , accord to the settlement watchdog peac now . the intern commun regard the settlement as illeg , although israel disput thi . there are also about 160 so - call outpost , or small settlement which have been built without offici approv and are consid illeg under isra law . howev the isra govern ha legalis some outpost , give them the statu of settlement - last year 15 outpost were offici recognis , accord to the watchdog peac now , while settler establish a record 26 new outpost . right group say incid of settler attack , and alleg involv of the secur forc , are rare fulli investig , with impun virtual the norm . over the weekend isra forc raid the nur sham refuge camp in the northern west bank citi of tulkarm , with the isra militari say on sunday that 14 palestinian fighter had been kill and nine isra soldier wound in exchang of fire . resid of nur sham have onli identifi five of those kill as fighter , reuter report . meanwhil on sunday a palestinian volunt paramed wa kill in the northern west bank while treat peopl who had been injur by isra settler , the palestinian red crescent ( prc ) said . moham awad allan , 50 , wa tri to treat peopl injur `` by gunshot fire by isra settler `` , the prc said . some report said awad allan had been shot by settler , other said he wa shot by isra troop . the isra militari said it forc were sent to the villag of as - sawiya to break up clash . it confirm an ambul driver wa kill , and that it wa investig . isra forc also shot dead three peopl who they said had attack troop in other part of the west bank .