food distribut in the southern gaza citi of rafah ha been suspend due to a lack of suppli and insecur , the un say . the un agenc for palestinian refuge , unrwa , warn it distribut centr and a world food programm warehous were now inaccess becaus of the ongo isra militari oper against hama in eastern rafah . at least 815 , 000 of the more than a million peopl take refug in rafah have fled sinc the isra oper began two week ago . unrwa also said it health centr had not receiv ani medic suppli in the past 10 day . the news came as the us said it did not believ ani of the aid that had enter northern gaza through a newli - complet float pier had been distribut to palestinian by humanitarian organis . on saturday , crowd of palestinian desper for food intercept a number of wfp lorri transport aid from the pier , which prompt the agenc to suspend deliveri until new rout could be identifi . israel launch a militari campaign to destroy hama in respons to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 octob , dure which about 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 252 other were taken hostag . more than 35 , 640 peopl have been kill in gaza sinc then , accord to the territori ' s hama - run health ministri . after seven month of war in gaza , israel ha insist victori is imposs without take rafah and elimin the last remain hama battalion there . but the un and western power have warn that an all - out assault could lead to mass civilian casualti and a humanitarian catastroph . on 6 may , the israel defens forc ( idf ) order resid of eastern rafah to evacu for their own safeti befor it began what it call “ precis oper ” against hama oper and infrastructur . sinc then , troop have advanc into central neighbourhood and taken control of the rafah border cross with egypt . the cross remain close , while the un say the nearbi kerem shalom cross with israel is too danger to access . on monday , israel ’ s defenc minist , yoav gallant , declar that it wa “ commit to broaden the ground oper in rafah ” . unrwa said in a report on tuesday that it had been forc to suspend food distribut becaus the isra oper had left it distribut centr and a wfp warehous inaccess . when ask about the ramif , un spokesperson stephan dujarr told report in new york : “ peopl don ’ t eat . ” it is not clear how mani peopl are still live in the rafah area . but the head of unwa impli it wa more than 800 , 000 on sunday , when he said that “ nearli half of the popul are on the road ” . the idf ha told them to head to an “ expand humanitarian area ” that stretch from nearbi al - mawasi to the central town of deir al - balah and said they will find field hospit , tent , food and other suppli . howev , the un ha said nowher is safe in gaza and that the design area is alreadi cram with peopl and doe not have clean drink water suppli and sanit facil . the idf said on tuesday that it soldier were continu “ target raid on ... terrorist infrastructur and build ” in eastern rafah , and that it had “ elimin dozen of terrorist ” who tri to approach them . anoth statement said it wa facilit “ the passag of hundr of truck contain food , water , medic suppli , and shelter equip ” across gaza . it report that 381 aid lorri were transfer via kerem shalom on tuesday and that anoth 70 enter northern gaza via the erez west cross . but it also note 650 lorri load remain wait for collect by aid agenc at the two cross . as well as say that kerem shalom is difficult to access safe , the un ha note that area in the vicin of erez west are under other isra evacu order . a un - back assess publish in march warn that 1 . 1 million peopl in gaza were face catastroph level of hunger and that famin wa immin by may in northern gaza , where an estim 300 , 000 peopl are trap . no formal famin declar ha been made , but wfp execut director cindi mccain said earlier thi month that “ there is full - blown famin in the north , and it ' s move it way south ” . on friday , the first lorri load of aid roll off the us militari ’ s float pier south - west of gaza citi , which us offici have said will “ surg humanitarian assist ” . us central command announc earli on tuesday that 569 tonn of aid had been deliv by cargo ship that sail from cypru . but later in the day , pentagon press secretari maj gen pat ryder told report in washington that none of those suppli had yet been distribut by humanitarian organis . mr dujarr said contractor were abl on friday to drive 10 aid lorri from the pier to a wfp warehous in the central town of deir al - balah . but the next day 11 of the 16 lorri which set off were intercept by hungri crowd . '' these truck were travel through area where there ' d been no aid , ” mr dujarr said . “ i think peopl fear that they would never see aid . they grab what they could . ” gen ryder said there had been discuss among the us , israel and the un `` to identifi altern rout for the safe movement of staff and cargo ” . “ we do anticip that assist will be distribut in the come day , of cours , condit permit , ” he ad . meanwhil , the head of the world health organ warn that the largest partial function hospit in northern gaza wa reportedli hit four time on tuesday , as battl rage between isra forc and palestinian arm group in the nearbi jabalia area . the idf said it wa review report from medic at kamal adwan hospit in beit lahia that it emerg depart had been struck by isra missil , forc them to rush patient on hospit bed to a street outsid . the who also said al - awda hospit in jabalia had been besieg sinc sunday , with staff , patient and peopl accompani them trap insid . ten of thousand of civilian have fled jabalia sinc 11 may , when the idf said it would re - enter the area becaus hama had regroup there .