a truce between israel and the palestinian group hama in gaza wa never go to be easi . week of talk have fail to produc agreement . but intern pressur is grow . perhap the biggest sign is the biden administr send william burn , the head of the cia , for the latest round of talk in cairo . hama ha , in public at least , stuck with it initi demand of a perman ceasefir , the complet withdraw of isra troop and the return of displac palestinian to northern part of the territori without restrict . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu meanwhil insist that israel will continu fight until hama is destroy and hostag the group is hold are free . `` there ' s a lot more american pressur on israel , and on egypt and qatar to put pressur on hama . that ' s obviou , '' said gershon baskin , who help negoti a deal with hama for the releas of isra soldier gilad shalit in 2011 . `` the fact that the head of the cia show up , which requir all the negoti to be there at the highest level . that ' s indic of increas american pressur . '' but that doe not mean a deal is at hand . isra offici have indic willing to make some concess amid intensifi frustrat among the countri ' s main alli , includ the us . earlier thi week , the isra defenc minist , yoav gallant , suggest that now wa the right time for a truce . ani deal is expect to see the releas of some of the hostag captur in the hama attack in return for palestinian prison be held in isra jail , which wa the basi for a truce that led to a temporari paus in hostil in novemb . accord to isra author , 133 peopl remain captiv in gaza , although at least 30 have alreadi been confirm dead . under the latest us propos , an initi phase of a six - week ceasefir would see hama releas 40 hostag who are aliv , with the prioriti be given to femal captiv includ soldier , men over the age of 50 and those with seriou medic condit . israel would then releas at least 700 palestinian , includ about 100 who are serv life sentenc for kill isra , which ha prove controversi in israel in the past . but hama ha reportedli told negoti it is not hold 40 peopl in thi categori , rais the prospect that mani more hostag than previous thought have die or that they could be in the hand of other arm group , such as palestinian islam jihad . in israel , mr netanyahu ' s room for manoeuvr is limit by pressur from differ part of societi and polit . while most of the isra public remain support of the war , there are grow call for him to agre to a deal for the releas of the hostag . the famili have held larg protest , accus the prime minist of not make the captiv ' return a prioriti and of be more concern with hi own polit surviv . call for mr netanyahu to resign are on the rise too . divis have intensifi within mr netanyahu ' s govern coalit , which includ far - right , ultranationalist alli who refus concess to hama and insist the war must go on . financ minist bezalel smotrich told the prime minist that increas pressur on hama wa the onli way to bring the hostag back and destroy the group , while nation secur minist itamar ben gvir explicitli threaten to bring down mr netanyahu himself if he did not go ahead with a much - promis offens into the citi of rafah , in southern gaza . isra offici insist it is essenti to enter rafah , where , they say , hama ha four oper brigad and it senior leader could be hide . but virtual everyon outsid israel is against an offens in the citi , where about 1 . 5 million palestinian are shelter in tent , improvis shelter and overcrowd camp , over concern of the catastroph impact it could have on civilian . in what could have been an attempt to counter domest critic , on monday , mr netanyahu said a date had alreadi been set for a rafah oper , without give detail . `` there ' s a revolt go on right now in the govern , and within [ mr netanyahu ' s parti ] likud , against netanyahu make ani kind of deal that they don ' t think should be made , '' mr baskin said . `` netanyahu is not a free actor . he ' s a hostag himself within hi own govern . '' for it part hama ha yet to give a formal respons to the latest propos , but said that while it wa interest in an agreement `` that put an end to the aggress on our peopl `` , the offer did not meet it demand . `` the isra posit remain intransig , '' the group said in a statement . the white hous describ the group ' s respons as `` less than encourag `` . a final decis will probabl be made by yahya sinwar , the hama leader in gaza who is thought to be hide in tunnel surround by guard and hostag . but commun with him are difficult and said to involv sever intermediari and take day . the group , mr baskin said , wa also demand more say in which palestinian prison would be releas and that it would not agre to ani of them be deport to anoth countri , issu that could present obstacl to negoti . hama also believ that without guarante of a perman ceasefir , israel will continu to attack the group onc the hostag are releas . it leadership ha wit grow intern critic of israel and may believ time is on their side to secur concess , despit the overwhelm and immedi need of gaza ' s devast civilian popul . the war in gaza , israel ' s respons to the hama attack on 7 octob that kill about 1 , 200 peopl , ha kill more than 33 , 000 palestinian , accord to the hama - run health ministri , destroy larg part of the territori , and left mani on the brink of famin . `` from my experi in deal with these thing , the main difficulti are whether or not the main decis maker on both side is readi for a deal . that ' s not clear , '' mr baskin said . `` it ' s not clear that netanyahu is readi for a deal , it ' s not clear that [ hama polit leader in gaza yahya ] sinwar is readi for a deal . but when they are , they will find the middl ground . '' perhap unsurprisingli , a hama spokesperson seiz on mr netanyahu ' s comment about set a date for an attack on rafah , say it rais question about the purpos of resum negoti .