the edinburgh intern book festiv ha end it 20 - year fund partnership with sponsor bailli gifford after pressur from climat chang protest . the move follow a similar decis by the hay festiv in wale last week . the invest compani , which is base in edinburgh , ha been a major sponsor of uk art event but ha come under scrutini for it invest in fossil fuel . book festiv chairman allan littl said they could nor deliv a safe and sustain festiv in august with the constant threat of disrupt from activist . the protest began when more than 50 author call on the festiv to end it deal with bailli gifford in 2023 , after climat chang activist greta thunberg cancel an appear at the event . the then festiv director , nick barley , warn the organis would not have enough money to oper without privat sponsorship . in a statement releas on thursday , bailli gifford ' s nick thoma said : “ the activist ’ anonym campaign of coercion and misinform ha put intoler pressur on author and the festiv commun . `` we step back with the hope that the festiv will thrive thi year and into the futur . `` we hold the activist squar respons for the inhibit effect their action will have on fund for the art in thi countri . '' pressur ha mount on the organis in recent week after the protest group fossil free book turn it attent to the long - run hay festiv . the group attack the festiv for it link with the invest firm , which it say ha link to fossil fuel firm and israel . fossil free book and it support have made the israel - hama war a campaign issu alongsid climat chang . artist includ charlott church and nish kumar pull out of appear at hay last week in protest at the deal between the festiv and bailli gifford . more than 700 publish and writer includ writer georg monbiot , max porter and michael rosen have sign an open letter call on festiv to end their link with bailli gifford . mr littl said : “ our team can not be expect to deliv a safe and sustain festiv thi august under the constant threat of disrupt from activist . thi wa a pragmat respons to that realiti . “ fund for the art is now in a peril posit and we should all be clear that without the support of our partner and donor , the futur of festiv like our – and all of the benefit these event bring to author and reader alik – is in jeopardi . '' mr littl said the festiv wa a chariti and an `` import platform `` which allow peopl of all view to debat . `` book festiv around the world are forum in which rigor , intellig debat can take place . our festiv should be a place where progress and nuanc discuss can happen in a safe and respect space , '' he said . the festiv ' s chief execut , jenni niven , said the mutual decis to end the partnership wa a sourc of great regret . “ the pressur on our team ha simpli becom intoler . we have a major global festiv start in 10 week ’ time and we need to focu all of our effort and energi on deliv a safe and success event for our audienc , '' she said . “ undermin the long - term futur of charit organis such as book festiv is not the right way to bring about chang . '' nick thoma , a partner at bailli gifford , said : “ our collabor with the edinburgh intern book festiv , span decad , wa root in our share interest in make edinburgh a thrive and cultur vibrant place to live and work . '' he said the firm had support the school and children ' s programm , provid free book - and he defend bailli gifford ' s ethic record . `` the assert that we have signific amount of money in the occupi palestinian territori is offens mislead . bailli gifford is a larg investor in sever multin technolog compani , includ amazon , nvidia , and meta , '' he said . `` demand divest from these global compani , use by million of peopl around the world , is unreason and serv no purpos . much as it would be unreason to demand author boycott instagram or stop sell book on amazon . “ nor is bailli gifford a signific fossil fuel investor . onli 2 % of our client ’ money is invest in compani with some busi relat to fossil fuel . we invest far more in compani help drive the transit to clean energi . '' fossil free book said they welcom the news that the book festiv had `` drop `` bailli gifford as a sponsor . a statement said : `` our primari demand ha alway been for bailli gifford to divest , and for festiv to use their relationship with bailli gifford to call on the firm to divest . `` as bomb continu to fall on palestinian in gaza , we hope thi send a clear messag : we are unit in our solidar for palestinian . `` we condemn israel ’ s genocid in gaza , and the recent horrifi massacr of palestinian shelter in rafah by isra precis bomb . we call on all financi institut with hold in isra occup , apartheid and genocid to divest . '' we love our literari festiv dearli , and it is a privileg to share work with reader , but thi can not come at the expens of the human right of palestinian and commun harm by fossil fuel compani . '' the group ad that it ha not coerc author into support it aim and said it would be meet jenni niven from the edinburgh intern book festiv on friday . sponsor like bailli gifford are rare in the art world . they are known for give a lot and place few - if ani - restrict on fund . but now , one by one the uk ’ s lead literari festiv are turn down bailli gifford ' s money , under pressur from activist and author who say the invest firm ha link to israel and fossil fuel which make it unaccept . bailli gifford disput the figur use in the fossil free book campaign . the compani say onli two per cent of their client ' invest relat to fossil fuel and ani suggest they have signific sum in occupi palestinian territori is “ offens mislead ” . but have persuad the hay festiv to drop it sponsorship , fossil free book have now done the same in edinburgh . the peopl who run the edinburgh book festiv say thi is the onli practic way to ensur the event happen at all , after threat of disrupt and boycott . a charit organis ha been forc to turn down resourc in the most precari of time . the worri must be that other sponsor may also shi away , leav the festiv in jeopardi . and for what ? bailli gifford will continu to invest , and their philanthropi will go elsewher . meanwhil , the complex issu and discuss for which thi festiv is fame may not have a platform at all .