late on thursday night , the israel defens forc ( idf ) conven a meet for a group of intern journalist at the defenc ministri build in tel aviv . the idf then set out for us the result of their initi inquiri into the kill of seven aid worker in gaza . retir maj gen yoav har - even describ how the idf ' s drone oper mistook an aid worker carri a bag for a gunman , and then target one of the world central kitchen vehicl with a missil . the idf then describ how two peopl escap that vehicl and got into a second car , which wa hit by anoth missil from a drone . the militari confirm that there were survivor from the second explos , who manag to get into the third vehicl - which wa then also hit by a missil . by the end , all the aid worker were dead . the idf ' s investig conclud that the armi unit involv had believ the vehicl they were track from the sky had been taken over by hama gunmen , and that they were not awar of the coordin procedur put in place between the militari and world central kitchen for that even . it also said they also did not know the car belong to the chariti , and the three air strike were in violat of the armi ' s own procedur . the evid from the investig ha been pass to the militari advoc gener - the isra armi ' s top legal author - to determin if there ha been ani crimin conduct . in addit , the armi ha sack the major in charg of fire support . the brigad ' s chief of staff , a colonel , ha also been sack . the division command , brigad command and the gener in charg of the idf ' s southern command have been formal reprimand . the idf sought to explain the context lead up to the fatal event of that even . the aid worker had been overse the distribut of food aid that had arriv on a ship from cypru and unload at a recent construct jetti in the northern gaza strip . under coordin with the idf , the world central kitchen team were transfer these suppli to a warehous a few kilometr further south . dure thi process , the idf say their drone oper spot a gunman ride on the roof of a larg aid lorri that wa be escort by the wck team . they play those of us at the brief a somewhat blurri video - which ha not been releas to the public - show a figur hold a gun , on top of the lorri . at one point the gun is fire , show up clearli on the slow - down black and white footag . at thi stage the militari contact world central kitchen but they are in turn unabl to reach the team on the ground - where phone commun is patchi and aid agenc say they are prohibit by the idf from use radio . the drone footag also appear to confirm that at night , the sticker on the roof of the world central kitchen vehicl , with the chariti ' s logo , are not visibl to the drone oper . the militari then track the convoy , includ the aid lorri , to a warehous . then the convoy split - the aid lorri remain in the warehous and four suv - type car emerg . one of those vehicl head north , and is then shown to contain gunmen , with weapon clearli visibl from the drone footag , as they emerg next to anoth aid warehous . the idf say that these gunmen were not target , becaus of their proxim to an aid facil . meanwhil , three remain vehicl belong to world central kitchen begin to head south . the drone team , the armi say , now work under the assumpt that they are deal with hama milit and not an aid convoy , had misidentifi one of the aid worker as a gunman , and claim to have seen them enter one of the three wck car . no footag of thi moment wa provid , but the militari investig conclud that it wa a `` misclassif ... they saw that it ' s a rifl but at the end of the day it wa a bag `` . under the mistaken belief that one vehicl now contain a gunman , authoris to fire a missil is sought , and grant by superior offic . at 23 : 09 the first vehicl is struck , two minut later the second , and at 23 : 13 the third final , fatal strike is launch . the militari ' s conclus are that three major fail occur :