three arrest have been made after peopl protest against the war in gaza in a univers and citi centr . a group of student barricad themselv insid a newcastl univers build on wednesday . northumbria polic said a number of protest refus to compli with it instruct and caus `` consider disrupt `` in the citi centr later that even . two men in their 20 were arrest in connect with public order offenc and a man in hi 60 wa arrest for breach of the peac . the protest occupi the armstrong build for about five hour . polic were call at about 16 : 10 bst and a spokesman said they had engag with `` all parti `` . a spokesman said : `` while the activ mainli pass without incid , a number of protest outsid the build refus to compli with polic instruct and seem intent on gain entri . '' later that even , some protest move on to other part of the citi centr – caus consider disrupt . '' the men arrest for public order offenc were still in custodi , polic said , while the other man wa releas . the forc ad : `` as a forc , we uphold the right to peac protest . howev , if ani crimin offenc are commit , then those respons can expect to be dealt with appropri . '' about 50 peopl occupi the queen victoria road build , with about 100 gather outsid on wednesday afternoon . the newcastl coalit apartheid off campu group said at the time it had escal it action after four week of peac protest . the protest had call on the univers to cut tie with defenc compani and isra univers , and for it to call for an `` immedi , uncondit and perman ceasefir in gaza `` . the univers said unauthoris occup would be treat as trespass and ani student identifi would face disciplinari action . the union of jewish student said jewish student in the citi had receiv `` abus `` sinc the encamp began . '' we call on the univers leadership to ensur jewish student can studi in safeti on campu , '' a spokesperson ad . the protest is one of a number of pro - palestinian demonstr take place at univers around the uk , includ manchest , leed , and goldsmith in london . they follow on from similar protest in the us , where more than 1 , 000 peopl have been arrest dure demonstr . follow bbc newcastl on x ( formerli twitter ) , facebook and instagram . send your stori idea to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .