israel - hamaswar advertisement around 215 rockets were launched from lebanon into northern israel in an apparent response to the strike , israeli army radio said . there were no immediate reports of casualties . byeuan ward reporting from beirut , lebanon the lebanese militant group hezbollah fired one of its heaviest rocket barrages yet into israel on wednesday , targeting military bases and an arms factory , in response to an overnight strike thatkilled one of its senior commandersas tensions rise further at the border . the commander , taleb abdallah , also known as abu taleb , was among the highest - ranking members of hezbollah , apowerful lebanese militia and political movementbacked by iran , to have been killed since the oct . 7 hamas - led attack on israel set off war in gaza . there were no immediate reports of casualties from the hezbollah rocket barrages , according to the israeli military . israel and hamas have been trading fire since israel ’ s offensive in the gaza strip prompted hezbollah to mount cross - border attacks in support of hamas , but the intensity of hezbollah ’ s attacks has increased this month . israeli officials have threatened at the highest levels to pursue further military action and hezbollah has vowed to keep up its fight , raising fresh concerns that the months of low - level conflict could grow into a larger war on israel ’ s northern border . speaking at mr . abdallah ’ s funeral in beirut ’ s southern suburbs , hashem safieddine , the leader of hezbollah ’ s executive council , pledged that the group would double down on its attacks against israel in the wake of the killing . “ if the enemy ’ s message is to retreat from our position in supporting the oppressed in gaza , then he must know that our answer is final ,” mr . safieddine said . “ we will increase the intensity , quantity and quality of our operations .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement