israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis not on its own , in all likelihood . but it reflects a growing , global exasperation with israel that might eventually lend momentum to a two - state solution . byroger cohen reporting from paris the decision byspain , norway and irelandto recognize an independent palestinian state reflects growing exasperation with the israel of prime minister benjamin netanyahu , even from traditional friends , and suggests that international pressure on him will grow . it does not , however , make it inevitable that otherlarger european stateswill follow suit . this year president emmanuel macron of france has said such recognition is “ not a taboo ,” a position reiterated by the french foreign ministry on wednesday . in february , david cameron , britain ’ s foreign secretary , said that such recognition “ can ’ t come at the start of the process , but it doesn ’ t have to be the very end of the process .” those were small steps , although beyond anything they have said previously , but far short of recognition of a palestinian state itself . if europe were unified , with the major states joining in recognition , leaving the united states isolated in rejecting such a step , then it could have a greater impact , but that stage is far from being reached . “ this decision must be useful , that is to say allow a decisive step forward on the political level ,” foreign minister stéphane séjourné said in a statement about potential recognition . “ france does not consider that the conditions have been met to date for this decision to have a real impact on this process .” france , in other words , will wait . so , too , will germany , whose support for israel , rooted in atonement for the holocaust , is second only to that of the united states . the decision of spain , norway and ireland has made one thing clear : there will be no european unity , or at least aligned timing , on the question of recognition of a palestinian state before such a state exists on the ground . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement