israel - hamaswar advertisement the finance minister ’ s office signaled that the decision , which could worsen the palestinians ’ dire economic crisis , was a response to spain , norway and ireland recognizing palestinian statehood . byaaron boxerman reporting from jerusalem israel will not transfer much - needed funds to the palestinian authority in the wake of the decision by three european countries to recognize a palestinian state , the country ’ s finance minister said on wednesday , as its foreign minister denounced the european moves as giving “ a gold medal to hamas terrorists .” the decision by the finance minister , bezalel smotrich , a far - right leader who opposes palestinian sovereignty , threatened to push the palestinian government into a deeper fiscal crisis . he said in a statement that he had informed prime minister benjamin netanyahu that he would no longer send tax revenues to the authority , which administers parts of the israeli - occupied west bank in close cooperation with israel . mr . smotrich ’ s office signaled that the decision was at least partly a response to spain , norway and ireland recognizing palestinian statehood , and that the palestinian leadership bore responsibility for campaigning for the move . “ they are acting against israel legally , diplomatically and for unilateral recognition ,” said eytan fuld , a spokesman for mr . smotrich , referring to the authority . “ when they act against the state of israel , there must be a response .” the israeli move drew a rebuke from the white house , but no threat of action in response . “ i think it ’ s wrong on a strategic basis , because withholding funds destabilizes the west bank . it undermines the search for security and prosperity for the palestinian people , which is in israel ’ s interests ,” jake sullivan , president biden ’ s national security adviser , said at a news conference . “ and i think it ’ s wrong to withhold funds that provide basic goods and services to innocent people .” mohammad mustafa , the recently inauguratedpalestinian authority prime minister , warned that the dire fiscal situation was contributing to a “ very serious moment ” in the west bank , which has faced increasing unrest since the hamas - led oct . 7 attacks on israel . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement