israel - hamaswar after 50 years of failure to stop violence and terrorism against palestinians by jewish ultranationalists , lawlessness has become the law . after 50 years of failure to stop violence and terrorism against palestinians by jewish ultranationalists , lawlessness has become the law . credit ... supported by byronen bergmanandmark mazzetti this story is told in three parts . the first documents the unequal system of justice that grew around jewish settlements in gaza and the west bank . the second shows how extremists targeted not only palestinians but also israeli officials trying to make peace . the third explores how this movement gained control of the state itself . taken together , they tell the story of how a radical ideology moved from the fringes to the heart of israeli political power . by the end of october , it was clear that no one was going to help the villagers of khirbet zanuta . a tiny palestinian community , some 150 people perched on a windswept hill in the west bank near hebron , it had long faced threats from the jewish settlers who had steadily encircled it . but occasional harassment and vandalism , in the days after the oct . 7 hamas attack , escalated into beatings and murder threats . the villagers made appeal after appeal to the israeli police and to the ever - present israeli military , but their calls for protection went largely unheeded , and the attacks continued with no consequences . so one day the villagers packed what they could , loaded their families into trucks and disappeared . who bulldozed the village after that is a matter of dispute . the israeli army says it was the settlers ; a senior israeli police officer says it was the army . either way , soon after the villagers left , little remained of khirbet zanuta besides the ruins of a clinic and an elementary school . one wall of the clinic , leaning sideways , bore a sign saying that it had been funded by an agency of the european union providing “ humanitarian support for palestinians at risk of forcible transfer in the west bank .” near the school , someone had planted the flag of israel as another kind of announcement : this is jewish land now . such violence over the decades in places like khirbet zanuta is well documented . but protecting the people who carry out that violence is the dark secret of israeli justice . the long arc of harassment , assault and murder of palestinians by jewish settlers is twinned with a shadow history , one of silence , avoidance and abetment by israeli officials . for many of those officials , it is palestinian terrorism that most threatens israel . but in interviews with more than 100 people — current and former officers of the israeli military , the national israeli police and the shin bet domestic security service ; high - ranking israeli political officials , including four former prime ministers ; palestinian leaders and activists ; israeli human rights lawyers ; american officials charged with supporting the israeli - palestinian partnership — we found a different and perhaps even more destabilizing threat . a long history of crime without punishment , many of those officials now say , threatens not only palestinians living in the occupied territories but also the state of israel itself . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement