israel - hamaswar advertisement the temporary pier is one of few remaining entry points for aid shipments since israel began an incursion into rafah , in southern gaza , earlier this month . bygaya gupta none of the food and supplies that have entered the gaza strip through a u . s .- built temporary pier in its first five days of operation have been distributed to palestinians by aid organizations , gen . patrick s . ryder , the pentagon spokesman , said at a news briefing on tuesday . general ryder said that 569 metric tons of aid had made it onto gaza ’ s shore , but that those supplies had yet to be parceled out by humanitarian organizations . on saturday , hungry crowdslooted several world food program truckstransporting aid that had been delivered through the pier , prompting the agency to suspend deliveries of aid arriving at the pier on sunday and monday . general ryder also said that after discussions with israel and the united nations , alternative routes for the safe movement of staff and cargo had been established . the aid is now being taken to warehouses for further distribution , he said . “ we do anticipate that assistance will be distributed in the coming days , of course , conditions permitting ,” he said . the temporary pier is one of few remaining entry points for aid shipments after israel ’ s incursion into rafah , in southern gaza , earlier this month . israel not only seized the rafah crossing on the border with egypt but also closed the kerem shalom crossing into israel . those were the two main entry points for truck convoys carrying aid overland . though israel has since reopened kerem shalom , only 69 trucks have entered gaza through it in the past two weeks , according to u . n . data . that is far fewer than the number of aid trucks that were entering through the two southern border crossings before israeli troops went into rafah . that number peaked at 340 trucks a day . the 569 metric tons that have arrived at the pier so far are a fraction of the amount of aid that was entering gaza through land routes before israel seized the rafah crossing . the united nations estimates that trucks carrying food to gaza have been loaded with roughly 15 to 30 metric tons each . the pier system , which cost an estimated $ 300 million , became operational on thursday , after it was connected to the mediterranean shore in central gaza . on friday , the first trucks of aid beganmoving ashore . so far , however , the operation has fallen short of its goal of bringing in 90 trucks a day and eventually ramping up to 150 trucks . general ryder said that more aid was on the way but that the u . s . military was taking a “ crawl , walk , run ” approach , working out the logistical hurdles and taking into account security conditions . “ so i think you ’ re going to see as we work together the amount of aid increase , and the ability to get it distributed increase ,” he said . gaya guptais a reporter covering breaking news and a member of the 2023 - 24times fellowship class , a program for journalists early in their careers . more about gaya gupta advertisement