israel - hamaswar advertisement the moves are a rebuke to israel , who is the face of mounting international anger over the country ’ s military offensive in gaza . bycassandra vinograd three european nations formally recognized an independent palestinian state on tuesday , drawing the ire of israel as it continued to press its military offensive in gaza . the previously announced moves by spain , norway and ireland arelargely symbolic , but serve as a rebuke to israel in the face of mounting international frustration over the country ’ s military offensive in gaza and its occupation of palestinian territories over the years . they also come amid global outrage over an israeli airstrike on sunday thatkilled dozens of peopleat a camp for displaced palestinians in rafah , despite international calls for the military to curb its offensive in the southern gaza city . growing concern over the civilian death toll could prompt more nations to follow suit , analysts say . israel ’ s foreign minister , israel katz , on tuesdayaccusedspain ’ s prime minister , pedro sánchez , of complicity in incitement against jews for his role in recognizing a palestinian state . but mr . sánchez rejected that claim in an address on tuesday ahead of a cabinet vote on the matter , calling the recognition a matter of “ historical justice ” and a “ necessity ” in order to achieve peace . “ the recognition of palestine is not against anyone , least of all israel , a friendly nation that spain values and holds in high regard and with whom we aim to foster the strongest possible relationship ,” he said on the steps of moncloa palace , the prime minister ’ s residence , in madrid . “ furthermore , our decision reflects our absolute rejection of hamas , a terrorist organization that is against a two - state solution .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement