middle eastcrisis advertisement here ’ s a closer look at the clashes between israel and the lebanese militia hezbollah , which have raised fears of a broader middle east conflict . byeuan wardandmatthew mpoke bigg israel and hezbollah have traded fire across the lebanese border since the start of the war in gaza , with more than 150 , 000 people on both sides of the boundaryforced to flee their homes . but the intensity of the attacks has increased in recent days , leading to fears of a full - scale waron another front . this week , prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel threatened further military action to ensure the return ofcivilians to communities in northern israel . here are some key questions about the conflict and where it might be heading : hezbollah , apowerful lebanese militia and political movement , launched attacks into israel on oct . 8 , answering calls by hamas to open a second front a day after the palestinian armed group that rules gaza led a deadly assault on israel . both hezbollah and hamas are backed by iran . hezbollah ’ s leader , hassan nasrallah , has said that his group is trying to pin israel ’ s troops along the border and limit its capacity to attack hamas in gaza . hezbollah ’ s conflict with israel goes back decades . israel has invaded lebanon three times in the last 50 years , most recently in 2006 , when the two sides foughta monthlong warthat killed more than 1 , 000 people in lebanon , mostly civilians , and more than 150 in israel , mostly soldiers . the current round of fighting marks the most serious escalation since then . israel in february launched itsdeepest strikesinto lebanon in years , hitting the bekaa valley in response to a surface - to - air missile attack that downed an israeli drone over southern lebanon . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement