israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the israeli military said it killed militants in the central part of the enclave on friday , a day after a strike on a former school , where gazan officials say civilians were killed . bybilal shbair , aaron boxerman , raja abdulrahimandthomas fuller the israeli military pushed ahead with its offensive in central gaza on friday , saying it had killed dozens of militants , including some who had holed up in the premises of a former united nations school that had been converted into a shelter in the area . the military said it targeted hamas fighters at a school compound in shati , a coastal neighborhood northwest of gaza city ’ s downtown . the number of casualties was unclear . “ hamas systematically , intentionally and strategically places its infrastructure and operates from within civilian areas in full violation of international law and while putting the lives of gazan civilians at risk ,” the israeli military said in a statement after the strike . friday ’ s attack occurred a day aftera strike on a similar school complexnearby in nuseirat where displaced civilians had taken shelter . the gazan health authorities said women and children were among those killed in that strike . israel on friday offered a full - throated defense of thursday ’ s raid , saying that its forces had targeted 20 to 30 militants who it said were using three classrooms in the former school as a base . the attacks on the u . n . complexes in central gaza reflect israel ’ s laborious efforts to repacify areas where officials had formerly said hamas had largely been suppressed . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement