israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by a u . n . inquiry found support for israel ’ s allegations of sexual violence in the hamas - led oct . 7 attack , but they remain bitterly at odds over the war in the gaza strip . byadam sella , helene cooperandthomas fuller israelis largely welcomed a u . n . report that supported allegations of sexual violence during the hamas - led oct . 7 attack , even as a top israeli official accused the united nations of not doing enough to address the findings — a sign of the rising tensions between them . the u . n . report , released on monday , found both “ reasonable grounds to believe ” that sexual violence against multiple people had occurred in at least three locations in israel , and “ clear and convincing information ” that hostages taken to gaza on oct . 7 had been subjected to sexual violence , including rape . on tuesday , president isaac herzog of israelsaid on xthat the report was “ of immense importance ,” and he lauded it for its “ moral clarity and integrity .” but israel katz , israel ’ s foreign minister , accused the u . n . secretary general , antónio guterres , in a social media post of making a concerted effort to “ forget the report and avoid making the necessary decisions .” in protest , mr . katz recalled israel ’ s representative to the united nations , gilad erdan , for consultations — a step short of withdrawing the ambassador for a longer term . mr . erdan was on a plane back to israel on tuesday , he said . a u . n . spokesman , stéphane dujarric , said he did not accept — or even understand — the criticism , and that the report was done “ thoroughly and expeditiously ” and that “ in no way , shape or form did the secretary general do anything to ‘ bury ’ the report .” u . n . officials alerted journalists in advance of the report ’ s release and held a news conference to discuss it , and the report received extensive news coverage . mr . guterres has been an outspoken critic of israel ’ s invasion of the gaza strip and has been pushing for an immediate and binding cease - fire . and there is deep distrust of the united nations among israelis , who see the body as biased against their country — a fact that was noted in the report on oct . 7 . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement