israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the four hostages rescued in gaza were described as malnourished and traumatized . byadam rasgonandisabel kershner reporting from tel aviv and jerusalem in the months after he was taken hostage in israel and hidden in the gaza strip , andrey kozlov ’ s captors kept drumming in the same message : the world , they said , had given up on him . even his family had moved on . “ your mom is on vacation in greece ,” the militants told him . “ your mom doesn ’ t know about you at all — and doesn ’ t want to know .” so persuasive were they that when israeli security forces burst through the door of the apartment where mr . kozlov was being held on saturday , he was at first unsure of whether they had come to save or kill him , his parents said in an interview this week during which they recounted his ordeal . the account of mr . kozlov ’ s eight months in captivity came as a doctor in israel reported that while he and the three other rescued hamas hostages seemed to be in fairly good condition at first glance , tests showed that all were malnourished . and all , said dr . itai pessach , the head of the medical team for returning hostages at sheba medical center , had suffered mistreatment in varying degrees of frequency and intensity . “ they were all abused , punished and tortured physically and psychologically in many ways ,” he said . dr . pessach said the hostages he had examined had lost a lot of weight , though they gained some back , and their muscles were “ extremely wasted .” the mix of poor nutrition , confinement , lack of sunlight and stress that they endured may have long - term implications for their health , he added . hamas says it has treated the hostages well compared with israel ’ s treatment of palestinian prisoners , a claim that israeli officials deny . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement