advertisement when asked about the protests , gov . josh shapiro of pennsylvania said on thursday that it was “ past time ” for penn ’ s administration to clear the encampment . bymattathias schwartz reporting from philadelphia a pro - palestinian encampment at the university of pennsylvania has expanded , as students wrap up exams and the university finalizes its plans for graduation ceremonies on may 20 . a post onsocial mediaby an account associated with the penn encampment said the expansion on wednesday night was in response to “ the administration ’ s continued bad - faith negotiations ” over demands that the university divest from financial support for israel . steve silverman , a spokesman for penn , declined to comment on the activists ’ assertion that the university was not negotiating in good faith . for nearly two weeks , the protesters have been occupying the west side of a green space in front of college hall , the oldest building on campus . on wednesday night , after a march that brought a large group of students and philadelphia activists to college hall , protesters expanded the encampment to the east side of the green space , moving the metal barriers that had been erected to mark the boundaries of the protest space . penn ’ s administration has largely taken a hands - off approach to the encampment . but on thursday afternoon , the university announced actions against six students in connection with the “ unauthorized encampment .” in astatement posted on penn ’ s website , the university said it had imposed “ mandatory temporary leaves of absence ” on the students pending “ disciplinary investigations .” when asked on thursday about the protests , gov . josh shapiro of pennsylvania said that it was “ past time ” for penn ’ s administration to clear the encampment . “ over the last 24 hours at the university of pennsylvania , the situation has gotten even more unstable and out of control ,” he said , speaking at an unrelated news conferencenear pittsburgh . the governor , who is a nonvoting member of penn ’ s board of trustees , demurred when asked whether he would take independent action , saying that the matter was best left to campus administrators and local police . on thursday , the scene around the encampment was subdued . some protesters rested on a plinth beneath a statue of benjamin franklin . others walked around the encampment with the chief of penn ’ s fire and emergency services , who was surveying the grounds for potential hazards . outside the barriers were small groups of police officers , college administrators and pro - israel counterprotesters . this week , penn announcedspecial security measures for commencement , including no bags and “ airport - style security screening .” advertisement