israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by while the u . s . secretary of state kept up the pressure for a halt to the hostilities in gaza , israel and hamas still appeared to be far from reaching a deal . bymichael crowley , euan wardandthomas fuller secretary of state antony j . blinken said on wednesday that he would continue to press urgently for a cease - fire deal between israel and hamas in the gaza strip despite a counterproposal from hamas that he said included unacceptable demands . after more than eight months of war in gaza , the proposed cease - fire deal follows an outline made public last month by president biden and has the endorsement of the united nations security council . but israel and hamas still appear to be far from reaching a deal . “ in the days ahead , we are going to push on an urgent basis ,” mr . blinken said , “ to try and close this deal .” speaking at a news conference in doha , qatar , alongside mohammed bin abdulrahman al thani , who serves as both qatar ’ s prime minister and minister of foreign affairs , mr . blinken said that “ a deal was on the table that was virtually identical ” to one that hamas put forward on may 6 . but hamas ’ s response , he said , which was received by egyptian and qatari mediators and passed to american officials on tuesday , makes demands that “ go beyond positions that it had previously taken and accepted .” “ some of the changes are workable , some are not ,” mr . blinken said . he declined to disclose details about the hamas counterproposal but suggested that the group ’ s changing demands called into question its negotiators ’ sincerity . at some point , he said , “ you have to question whether they ’ re proceeding in good faith or not .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement