israel - hamaswar advertisement the slogan , which has been a touchstone for pro - palestinian demonstrators for months , ricocheted across social media this week . byali watkins the slogan “ all eyes on rafah ” has ricocheted across social media this week following an israeli strike in the gazan city that killed dozens of civilians and provoked international outrage . for months , the phrase has been a touchstone in the social and cultural dialogue around israel ’ s war against hamas in the region . it has periodically trended on social media , particularly as israeli military attacks in the city — located in the southern gaza strip , along the egyptian border — have escalated . on wednesday , the saying was once again trending , this time through what appears to bean a . i .- generated image showing a field of refugee tentsspelling out “ all eyes on rafah .” one version of the graphic has been shared more than 38 million times on instagram . the phrase may have originated in comments made in february by rik peeperkorn , who heads the world health organization ’ s office for gaza and the israeli - occupied west bank . mr . peeperkorn was speaking at a news conference as the israeli military intensified its campaign in the southern gaza strip . “ all eyes are on rafah ,” mr . peeperkornsaid at the time . the comment was almost immediately repurposed by pro - palestinian and humanitarian groups to draw attention to gaza and rafah , which was one of the last remaining destinations for displaced palestinians from other parts of the territory . among them were save the children international , oxfam and , later , pro - palestinian lobbying groups like jewish voice for peace . the saying was also heard at pro - palestinianproteststhat swept across western universities earlier this month . the deadlystrikein rafah on sunday was quicklydenouncedby world leaders . prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel said the attack had killed two hamas officials , and he called the civilian deaths a “ tragic accident .” ali watkinsis a reporter on the metro desk , covering crime and law enforcement in new york . previously , she covered national security in washington for the times , buzzfeed and mcclatchy newspapers . more about ali watkins advertisement