israel - hamaswar advertisement the international court of justice ruling deepens israel ’ s international isolation , but the court has no enforcement powers . bygaya gupta the international court of justice on friday ruled that israel must immediately halt its military offensive in the southern gaza city of rafah , dealing another blow to the country as it faces increasing international isolation . the court has no means of enforcing its orders , and israel said the language of the ruling left some room for interpretation . hard - line politicians in israel immediately vowed that israel would not comply . still , the 13 - 2 ruling puts more pressure on the netanyahu government over the conduct of the war . gazan authorities say at least 35 , 000 people have been killed , without distinguishing between combatants and civilians , and hundreds of thousands have been forced to flee repeatedly to avoid the israeli bombardment , which has devastated most of the enclave . “ the court considers that in conformity with obligations under the genocide convention , israel must immediately halt its military offensive , and any other action in the rafah governorate , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza conditions of life that could bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ,” the court ’ s president , nawaf salam , said in reading the ruling . the international court of justice ruled on friday that israel must immediately halt its military offensive in the southern gaza city of rafah , dealing another blow to the country as it faces increasing international isolation . the ruling is the latest in a series of rebukes of israel over the conduct of its war against hamas in the gaza strip . may 5 rafah rafah crossing 1 mile may 22 gaza strip area of image area of most damage rafah crossing source : satellite imagery from planet labs we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement