israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis the israeli prime minister has been put on the spot by president biden ’ s announcement outlining a proposal for a truce . byisabel kershner reporting from jerusalem for months , prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel has refused to offer a timeline for ending the war against hamas in gaza , a stance his critics see as a political tactic . but he has been put on the spot by president biden ’ s announcementoutlining a proposal for a truce . mr . netanyahu , a conservative , has long juggled competing personal , political and national interests . he now appears to be facing a stark choice between the survival of his hard - line , hawkish government and bringing home hostages held in gaza while setting himself and israel on a new course away from growing internationalisolation . critics of the prime minister have portrayed him as indecisive and say there are two netanyahus . one , they say , functions pragmatically in the small war cabinet he formed with some centrist rivals , to give it public legitimacy . the other is effectively being held hostage by the far - right members of his governing coalition , who oppose any concession to hamas and who ensure his political survival . on friday , mr . biden outlined broad terms that he said were presented by israel to the american , qatari and egyptian mediators who have been pushing for a deal to pause the fighting and free hostages in gaza . israeli officials confirmed that the terms matched a cease - fire proposal that had been approved by israel ’ s war cabinet but not yet presented to the israeli public . now , analysts say , it is crunchtime for bibi , as the prime minister is popularly known . mr . biden “ booted netanyahu out of the closet of ambiguity and presented netanyahu ’ s proposal himself ,” ben caspit , a biographer and longtime critic of the prime minister , wrote in sunday ’ s maariv , a hebrew daily . “ then he asked a simple question : does bibi support netanyahu ’ s proposal ? yes or no . no nonsense and hot air .” the leaders of two far - right parties in the coalition — bezalel smotrich , israel ’ s minister of finance , and itamar ben - gvir , the national security minister — have pledged to bring mr . netanyahu ’ s government down if the prime minister goes along with the deal outlined by mr . biden before hamas is fully destroyed . some hard - line members of mr . netanyahu ’ s own likud party have said they will join them . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement