israel - hamaswar advertisement the disclosure by the military was likely to add pressure on prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s government to move forward with a cease - fire deal . byanushka patil the israeli military said on monday that four more hostages who were abducted in the hamas - led oct . 7 attacks had died months ago in gaza , a disclosure that was likely to add pressure on prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s government to move forward with a cease - fire deal . rear adm . daniel hagari , spokesman for the israeli military , said at a news briefing on monday that the four hostages were believed to have been killed together “ several months ago ” near khan younis , in southern gaza , while israeli forces were operating in the area . the military identified the men as haim perry , yoram metzger , amiram cooper and nadav popplewell . admiral hagari said the decision to announce the hostages ’ deaths on monday was based on “ additional intelligence , which had been verified recently , making it possible to determine today that the four are no longer alive ,” adding that he knew “ difficult questions ” would arise about the circumstances of their deaths . the families of the four had been notified that their bodies were being held by hamas , and the circumstances of their deaths were “ still under examination ,” the israeli military said . the hostages families forum , a support group , released a statement demanding that the israeli government immediately negotiate a deal for the remaining hostages to be freed . it said the four who were declared dead on monday were alive when they were kidnapped from kibbutz nirim and kibbutz nir oz , and that there had been “ signs of life ” in the interim period . “ their murder in captivity is a mark of disgrace and a sad reflection on the significance of delaying previous deals ,” the group said . the pressure on mr . netanyahu to end the fighting in gaza has grown since last week , when president biden publicly endorsed what he said was a three - phase cease - fire proposal put forward by israel . but mr . netanyahu ’ s far - right political allies havethreatened to collapse his governmentif israel makes any agreement that ends the war without eliminating hamas . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement