israel - hamaswar since israel invaded gaza , the sde teiman military base has filled with blindfolded , handcuffed detainees , held without charge or legal representation . the new york times visited part of the sde teiman base , which has become synonymous with the detention of gazans , in may . credit ... avishag shaar - yashuv for the new york times supported by bypatrick kingsleyandbilal shbair patrick kingsley , from israel , and bilal shbair , from gaza , spent three months interviewing israeli soldiers who worked at sde teiman and palestinians held there . patrick kingsley visited the site . the men sat in rows , handcuffed and blindfolded , unable to see the israeli soldiers who stood watch over them from the other side of a mesh fence . they were barred from talking more loudly than a murmur , and forbidden to stand or sleep except when authorized . a few knelt in prayer . one was being inspected by a paramedic . another was briefly allowed to remove his handcuffs to wash himself . the hundreds of other gazan detainees sat in silence . they were all cut off from the outside world , prevented for weeks from contacting lawyers or relatives . this was the scene one afternoon in late may at a military hangar inside sde teiman , an army base in southern israel that has become synonymous withthe detentionof gazan palestinians . most gazans captured since the start of the war on oct . 7 have been brought to the site for initial interrogation , according to the israeli military . the military , which has not previously granted access to the media , allowed the new york times to briefly see part of the detention facility as well as to interview its commanders and other officials , on condition of preserving their anonymity . once an obscure barracks , sde teiman is now a makeshift interrogation site and a major focus of accusations that the israeli military hasmistreated detainees , including people later determined to have no ties to hamas or other armed groups . in interviews , former detainees described beatings and other abuse in the facility . field hospital detainee registration gate to detention area base entrance detention hangar sde teiman detainees searched upon arrival west bank gaza strip israel sde teiman west bank gaza strip israel field hospital detainee registration gate to detention area base entrance detention hangar detainees searched upon arrival source : satellite imagery from planet labs from april 18 , 2024 we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement