israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the israeli military said it had deployed additional combat troops to the southern gaza strip , even as a growing chorus of voices demand an end to the fighting . bycassandra vinograd , hiba yazbekandthomas fuller israel ’ s military said it was pressing on with its ground assault in the southern gaza strip on tuesday despite mountinginternational outrageover its operations there , including an airstrike over the weekend that killed dozens of civilians . the military said its troops were engaging in close - quarters combat with hamas fighters and that it had deployed an additional “ combat team ” to rafah , without specifying how many more soldiers were sent to the southern city . the military has said that its strike on rafah on sunday — which ignited a deadly fire that killed at least 45 people — targeted a hamas compound . on monday , prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel said it was a “ tragic accident ” that civilians in the camp , many of them displaced from other parts of gaza , had been killed . his comments , however , did little to quell a chorus of voices demanding accountability and a halt to the fighting , which came amid reports of anotherdeadly strikein nearby al - mawasi on tuesday . an official in gaza , dr . mohammed al moghayer of the palestinian civil defense , said that at least 21 people were killed and dozens injured on tuesday when strikes hit tents housing displaced people in al - mawasi , not far from the city of rafah . israel has declared an area of al - mawasi a humanitarian safe zone . tuesday ’ s strike appeared to occur near the humanitarian zone but not in it , according to videos verified by the new york times . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement