advertisement supported by under the bill , new york nonprofits that provide financial support to israel ’ s military or settlements could be sued for at least $ 1 million and lose their tax - exempt status . bykaren zraick a long - shot effort by left - leaning new york state lawmakers to curtail financial support for israeli settlements has drawn a big - name backer — but she doesn ’ t have a vote in albany . representative alexandria ocasio - cortez , who rarely wades into state politics , publicly backed a bill on monday that could strip new york nonprofits of their tax - exempt status if their funds are used to support israel ’ s military and settlement activity . her involvement underscores the extent to which the war in gaza and israel ’ s treatment of palestinians more broadly have animated the left flank of the democratic party as a pivotal election approaches . “ it is more important now than ever to hold the netanyahu government accountable for endorsing and , in fact , supporting some of this settler violence that prevents a lasting peace ,” ms . ocasio - cortez said at a news conference . “ this bill will make sure that the ongoing atrocities that we see happening in gaza and the west bank , as well as the ongoing enabling of armed militias to terrorize palestinians in the west bank , do not benefit from new york state charitable tax exemptions .” assemblyman zohran mamdani and state senator jabari brisport introduced the bill , called the “ not on our dime ” act , months before the oct . 7 attack , saying it was an effort to prevent tax - exempt donations from subsidizing violence by israeli settlers in the west bank . it was widely criticized by albany lawmakers and declared a “ nonstarter .” now its sponsors say they plan to revise the bill to prohibit “ aiding and abetting ” the resettling of the gaza strip or providing “ unauthorized support ” for israeli military activity that violates international law . “ there ’ s a newfound consciousness in our country with regards to the urgency of palestinian human rights , and we have to propose and advocate for legislation that reflects public sentiment ,” mr . mamdani said in a recent interview , referring to some of israel ’ s violence toward people in gaza and the west bank as “ war crimes .” the lawmakers announced the relaunch of the bill at an event at ms . ocasio - cortez ’ s bronx district office on monday morning , surrounded by left - leaning elected officials from the city council and state legislature . asked why she had chosen to endorse a state - level bill , ms . ocasio - cortez said that it was “ politically perilous ” to do so and that she had wanted to support her colleagues . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement