israel - hamaswar advertisement the u . s . secretary of state is expected to visit israel , egypt , qatar and jordan over three days . bymichael crowley reporting from washington secretary of state antony j . blinken plans to visit israel and three arab states next week , as the u . s . presses for a cease - fire deal between israel and hamas to end the war in gaza . mr . blinken is scheduled to travel to israel , egypt , qatar and jordan from monday through wednesday , matthew miller , the state department spokesman , said in a statement on friday . the trip , which will be his eighth visit to the region since the oct . 7 hamas - led attacks that set off the war , comes at a particularly tense moment . the biden administration is trying hard to stop the fighting in gaza in hopes of freeing israeli — and some israeli - american — hostages held by hamas and ending a conflict that has exacted a grievous toll in lives , physically devastated most of gaza and created political pressure on president biden to restrict u . s . arms deliveries to israel . relations between the biden administration and prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel are particularly fraught in the wake of mr . biden ’ s decision to hold up the delivery of american 2 , 000 - pound bombs , a move meant to ensure that they are not used in the sort of “ full - scale invasion ” of the gazan city of rafah that mr . biden has said he opposes . mr . blinken ’ s travels also come as worries are rising that fighting might escalate along israel ’ s northern border with the lebanon - based militant group hezbollah , which is backed by iran . the exchanges of fire have prompted evacuations on both sides of the border . a cease - fire would “ unlock the possibility of achieving calm along israel ’ s northern border — so both displaced israeli and lebanese families can return to their homes ,” mr . miller ’ s statement said . qatar and egypt have each played roles as mediators between hamas and israel , which do not negotiate directly . israel recently strained relations with egypt byseizing “ tactical control ” of a buffer zone on the egypt - gaza border , known as the philadelphi corridor . in jordan , mr . blinken is expected to attend a conference on the humanitarian crisis in gaza co - hosted by jordan , egypt , and the united nations . michael crowleycovers the state department and u . s . foreign policy for the times . he has reported from nearly three dozen countries and often travels with the secretary of state . more about michael crowley advertisement