israel - hamaswar advertisement the vote comes after the united states last month vetoed a security council measure granting full u . n . membership to a palestinian state . transcript “ a ‘ yes ’ vote is a vote for palestinian existence . it is not against any state , but it is against the attempts to deprive us of our state . that is why the israeli government is so opposed to it . because they oppose our independence and the two - state solution altogether .” “ this is your mirror . so that you can see exactly what you are inflicting upon the u . n . charter with this destructive vote . this is — you are shredding the u . n . charter with your own hands .” “ the result of the vote is as follows : in favor 143 , against nine , abstentions 25 . draft resolution a / es10 / l30 / rev1 is adopted .” [ cheering ] byfarnaz fassihi the united nations general assembly on friday overwhelmingly adopted a resolution declaring that palestinians qualify for full - members status at the united nations , a highly symbolic move that reflects growing global solidarity with palestinians and is a rebuke to israel and the united states . the resolution was approved by a vote of 143 to 9 with 25 nations abstaining . the assembly broke into a big applause after the vote . but the resolution does not mean a palestinian state will be recognized and admitted to the united nations as a full member anytime soon . the assembly can only grant full membership with the approval of the security council , and , if history is a guide , the united states would almost inevitably wield its veto power to kill such a measure , as it did in april . even though a majority in the general assembly have long supported palestinian statehood , the resolution was the first time the body had voted on the issue of full membership . the resolution declares that “ the state of palestine is qualified for membership in the united nations ” under its charter rules and recommends that the security council reconsider the matter with a favorable outcome . the resolution was prepared by the united arab emirates , the current chair of the u . n . arab group , and sponsored by 70 countries . the united states voted no , along with hungary , argentina , papua new guinea , micronesia and nauru . “ the vast majority of countries in this hall are fully aware of the legitimacy of the palestinian bid and the justness of their cause , which faces fierce attempts to suppress it and render it meaningless today ,” said the u . a . e . ambassador , mohamed abushahab , as he introduced the resolution on behalf of the arab group . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement