advertisement bythomas l . friedman opinion columnist the decision by spain , norway and ireland on wednesday to recognize an independent palestinian state marks the latest brick in the wall of rejection being built around israel ’ s current far - right government , which is asking the world to let it destroy hamas in gaza while refusing to work on a new future with non - hamas palestinians . more than140 countries and the holy seehave recognized the right of palestinians to have a state in the west bank , gaza and east jerusalem . what is noteworthy about this latest move , though , is that major western european countries , and the united states , had resisted going there , arguing that peace should be worked out between the two parties . until today . my focus is always on the practical : will these recognitions of a nonexistent palestinian state with undefined borders lead to the only sustainable solution — a real - life peace between two states for two indigenous communities — jews and palestinians ? the answer is yes and no . in the short term , these diplomatic recognitions from fellow democracies will not move the israeli public , yohanan plesner , president of the israel democracy institute , told me . in the wake of the horrific murders , rapes and kidnappings perpetrated by hamas on oct . 7 , he said , europeans telling israel that it must accept a palestinian state — “ without even mentioning that it must be demilitarized or any obligations on the part of palestinians to reject hamas ” — will be “ rejected ” by the israeli silent majority . in the long term , though , it is precisely these kinds of diplomatic shocks that could lead the opposition leaders in israel to finally escape from the gravitational pull of prime minister benjamin netanyahu — who dominates what is or is not permissible to say on this subject — and start calling for two states on terms israel can live with . one can already see signs of that . if that does not transpire , though , israel is heading for a world of hurt . those recognitions of a palestinian state by european nations “ are a huge straw in the wind , that will grow into a hurricane if israel does not change course ,” craig charney , a pollster who was a member of nelson mandela ’ s polling team in the 1990s , told me . charney explained that the isolation of south africa ’ s apartheid regime started with a voluntary arms embargo in the 1960s , which after the soweto uprising morphed in the 1970s into a formal u . n . arms embargo , which grew into a popular cause on campuses and in boardrooms in the early 1980s , which grew into a broader economic , military and travel embargo in the mid - 1980s — until two great leaders , nelson mandela and f . w . de klerk , finally emerged to end apartheid . “ but it was a very painful journey ,” he said . thomas l . friedman is the foreign affairs opinion columnist . he joined the paper in 1981 and has won three pulitzer prizes . he is the author of seven books , including “ from beirut to jerusalem ,” which won the national book award .@ tomfriedman • facebook advertisement