israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the israeli military withdrew its forces from the northern town of jabaliya in gaza on friday , leaving behind scenes of devastation , returning residents said . byaaron boxerman , raja abdulrahimandthomas fuller the israeli military said on friday that its forces had advanced into central rafah , pushing even more deeply into the southern gaza city despite an international backlash and pressure from allies to scale back the latest offensive and agree to a cease - fire . israeli special forces were engaging in “ intelligence - based targeted raids ” in central rafah , the israeli military said in a statement . it added that troops were performing “ focused and low - intensity operations ” in the city . on wednesday , the military announced that it had established “ operational control ” over the border zone with egypt , an eight - mile - long strip known as the philadelphi corridor on the outskirts of rafah . commercially available satellite imagery taken by planet labs on thursday showed that the israeli military had set up positions in parts of central rafah , while military vehicles and tanks could be seen as far as the outskirts of the tel al - sultan area in western rafah . as the fighting raged in gaza , president biden said friday in washington that it was time to end the war and bring about a cease - fire . “ at this point , hamas is no longer capable of carrying out another oct . 7 ,” mr . biden said from the white house . “ it ’ s time for this war to end , for the day after to begin .” in a statement released after mr . biden ’ s comments , the israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , said “ the war will not end until all of its goals are achieved , including the return of all our abductees and the elimination of hamas ’ s military and governmental capabilities .” despite nearly eight months of fighting , israel has yet to accomplish its stated goals of toppling hamas and bringing home the roughly 125 remaining hostages abducted during the oct . 7 attack . israeli officials have said that shutting down hamas ’ s cross - border smuggling network and rooting out militants in rafah will be key steps toward those goals . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement