israel - hamaswar advertisement as the israeli military freed four hostages , the surrounding area came under heavy fire , generating chaos and panic , eyewitnesses said . bybilal shbair , aaron boxermanandadam rasgon a day after the israeli military rescued four hostages held by hamas militants in nuseirat , gazans described an intense bombardment during the raid , followed by chaos in the streets from an operation that killed and wounded scores of palestinians . bayan abu amr , 32 , was carrying her 18 - month - old son mohammad on the edge of nuseirat ’ s main marketplace on saturday when she was surrounded by the heavy booms of strikes from aircraft , which israel ’ s military said targeted militants in an effort to ensure the safe extraction of the hostages and special forces . “ people were rushing like the day of judgment ; i did not know where to run ,” said ms . abu amr , who was on her way to pay a condolence call to her uncle ’ s family after two of his sons had died . “ kids were screaming , women were falling down while running .” along with other gazans , she managed to clamber onto a passing pickup truck that was trying to ferry people safely out amid the strikes , she recalled . one girl was separated from her mother in the confusion , while an old man lost his grip and fell off the truck onto the ground , she said . ms . abu amr finally arrived home with her son hours later , shocked that she was still alive . “ i won ’ t take my son out of the house again ,” she said . to rescue the hostages , israeli troops entered two residential buildings in which they were being held , according to rear adm . daniel hagari , the israeli military spokesman . admiral hagari said there were families living in the apartments , as well as armed hamas militants guarding the hostages , making it “ impossible to reach them without harming the civilians of gaza .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement