israel - hamaswar advertisement the vice president urged hamas to agree to a six - week cease - fire proposal and called on israel to increase the flow of aid into the enclave . transcript hamas claims it wants a cease - fire . well , there is a deal on the table . and as we have said , hamas needs to agree to that deal . let ’ s get a cease - fire . let ’ s reunite the hostages with their families , and let ’ s provide immediate relief to the people of gaza . and given the immense scale of suffering in gaza , there must be an immediate cease - fire , for at least the next six weeks , which is what is currently on the table . byerica l . green reporting from selma , ala . vice president kamala harris on sunday called for an “ immediatecease - fire ” in gaza , saying that hamas should agree to the six - week pause currently on the table and that israel should increase the flow of aid into the besieged enclave amid a humanitarian crisis . ms . harris ’ s remarks , delivered in selma , ala ., bolstered a recent push by president joe biden for an agreement and came a day before she was to meet with a top israeli cabinet official involved in war planning , benny gantz . her tone echoed a sharper and more urgent tone coming from the white house as its frustration with israel grows . last month , the president called israel ’ s response to the oct . 7 hamas - led attack “ over the top .” ms . harris assailed the dire conditions in gaza , calling the situation a “ humanitarian catastrophe .” it was her most forceful assessment to date of the middle east conflict , which has killed more than 30 , 000 palestinians , according to gazan health authorities , and put the enclave on the brink of famine . “ what we are seeing every day in gaza is devastating ,” ms . harris said . “ we have seen reports of families eating leaves or animal feed . women giving birth to malnourished babies with little or no medical care . and children dying from malnutrition and dehydration . as i have said many times , too many innocent palestinians have been killed .” “ the threat hamas poses to the people of israel must be eliminated ,” ms . harris added . “ and given the immense scale of suffering in gaza , there must be an immediate cease - fire , for at least the next six weeks .” mr . biden has been pushing for a deal between hamas and israel that would allow for the release of hostages and a temporary cease - fire by ramadan , the muslim holy month that starts around march 10 . u . s . officials said that israel had “ more or less accepted ” terms of the deal , but hamas has yet to agree to it . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement