israel - hamaswar advertisement news analysis an order to stop the rafah offensive was the latest action against israel , all of which create “ a tremendous sense of pressure ,” a former consul general said . bypatrick kingsley reporting from jerusalem in 2011 , a former israeli prime minister , ehud barak , warnedthat israel faced a “ diplomatic - political tsunami ” of censure if its conflict with the palestinians went unresolved , as peace talks faltered and revolution spread across the middle east . to israeli foreign policy analysts , that tsunami has never seemed closer . on friday , the international court of justice , an arm of the united nations , ordered israel to suspend its military campaign in rafahin southern gaza , adding to a growing list of diplomatic and legal moves against israel that have undermined its international standing . the ruling came just days after prosecutors at the international criminal court , another international tribunal , called for thearrest of israel ’ s prime ministerand defense minister , a move that was supported by some longstanding partners of israel , including france . the order came the same week thatthree european countriestook the coordinated step of recognizing palestine as a state . it also followed widespread university campus protests in the united states against israel ’ s campaign in gaza , as well as decisions byturkey to suspend trade with israeland by belize , bolivia andcolombiato break diplomatic ties with israel . “ this is not north korea or belarus or myanmar levels of isolation — but it is isolation ,” said alon pinkas , israel ’ s former consul general in new york . “ it creates a tremendous sense of pressure .” the latest move by the international court of justice may not have immediate practical effects : under the terms of the order , israel has a month to show how it has complied with its instructions . even if israel ignores the order , the i . c . j . has no means of enforcing it . in theory , the united nations security council can issue a resolution on the matter , but the united states , israel ’ s most powerful ally , has a permanent seat on the council , enabling it to veto any measure against israel . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement