israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by top news byaaron boxerman the israeli military said on wednesday night that it had taken “ tactical control ” over the philadelphi corridor — a sensitive strip of gaza along its border with egypt — in a move that could further tax israel ’ s already strained ties with cairo . rear adm . daniel hagari , the israeli military spokesman , said the zone was “ hamas ’ s oxygen tube ” and had been used by the palestinian armed group for “ smuggling munitions into gazan territory on a regular basis .” he said that hamas had also built tunnels near the egyptian border , calculating that israel would not dare strike so close to egyptian territory . israeli officials have said seizing the narrow , roughly nine - mile - long area holds crucial importance for preventing hamas from rearming itself through cross - border smuggling . “ it must be in our hands ; it must be closed ,” prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel told reporters in december , after being asked whether israel still intended to capture the zone . an israeli military official , who briefed reporters wednesday on condition of anonymity to comply with military protocol , said that troops had identified at least 20 tunnels running from gaza into egypt , some of them only recently discovered . but in briefing reporters later on wednesday night , admiral hagari stopped short of claiming that the tunnels crossed the border . “ i can ’ t say now that all of these tunnels cross into egypt ,” he said . “ we ’ ll inspect that , pass along the intelligence ” to egypt . the tunnel shafts in gaza “ are located in proximity to the border with egypt , including in buildings and homes ,” he added . “ we ’ ll investigate and take care of each of those shafts .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement