israel - hamaswar advertisement a commission produced the united nations ’ most detailed examination yet of the oct . 7 attacks and the subsequent war in gaza . bynick cumming - bruce reporting from geneva a united nations commission investigating the oct . 7 attacks on israel and the subsequent conflict in gaza has accused both palestinian armed groups and israel of committing war crimes , and the panel said that israel ’ s conduct of the war included crimes against humanity . in a report released on wednesday , the three - person commission — led by navi pillay , a former united nations human rights chief — provided the most detailed u . n . examination yet of events on and since oct . 7 . the report does not itself carry any penalties , but it lays out a legal analysis of actions in the gaza conflict that is likely to be weighed by the international court of justice and in other international criminal proceedings . israeldid not cooperatewith the investigation and protested the panel ’ s assessment of its behavior , the panel said . the report said that hamas ’ s military wing and six other palestinian armed groups — aided in some instances by palestinian civilians — killed and tortured people during the oct . 7 assault on israel in which more than 800 civilians were among the more than 1 , 200 killed . an additional 252 people , including 36 children , were taken hostage , the report said . “ many abductions were carried out with significant physical , mental and sexual violence and degrading and humiliating treatment , including in some cases parading the abductees ,” the report said . “ women and women ’ s bodies were used as victory trophies by male perpetrators .” the commission also reviewed allegations by journalists and the israeli authorities that palestinian militants had committed rape , but it said that it had “ not been able to independently verify such allegations ” because israel had not cooperated with the inquiry . the report cited “ a lack of access to victims , witnesses and crime sites and the obstruction of its investigations by the israeli authorities .” hamas has rejected all accusations that its forces engaged in sexual violence against israeli women , the commission noted . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement