israel - hamaswar advertisement israel ’ s military announced it had rescued four hostages who were held in gaza . there are roughly 120 captives still in the enclave . byephrat livni israelis briefly breathed a collective sigh of relief on saturday , when the military announced it had rescued four hostages who were held in gaza for eight months after being captured in the oct . 7 attack led by hamas . the four hostages were taken at the nova music festival on oct . 7 and were rescued in an operation in the town of nuseirat in central gaza early saturday . the mission left scores of palestinians , including women and children , dead . news of the rescue raised renewed questions about the fate of those who remain in captivity and a proposed cease - fire deal . how many hostages are still being held in gaza ? roughly 120 captives remain in gaza . the israeli military has confirmed that at least 30 of them have died . earlier this month , the israeli military informed the families of four hostages that they were dead and that their bodies were being held by hamas . in may , the military recovered the bodies of nine hostages , and the families of two thai citizens who had been captured were informed that their bodies were still being held in gaza . will israel undertake more rescue operations ? dozens of proposed rescue missions have not gone forward for fear the hostages or soldiers would lose their lives in the process , according to israeli defense officials . israeli troops have managed to rescue only seven living hostages in three separate military operations . in december , israeli troops accidentally fired on and killed three hostages in gaza who were trying to reach safety . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement