israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the strike on sunday , which israeli officials said targeted two hamas leaders taking cover near a civilian encampment , ignited a fire that killed 45 people , according to the gazan authorities . byisabel kershner reporting from jerusalem with international condemnation mounting , prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel said on monday that the killing of dozens of people a day earlier at a camp for displaced palestinians in rafah was “ a tragic accident ,” but gave no sign of curbing the israeli offensive in the southern gaza city . the deadly fire that tore through the encampment on sunday after an airstrike came at a particularly delicate time for israel , just days after the international court of justice appeared to order the country ’ s military to halt its offensive in rafah and as diplomats were aiming to restart negotiations for a cease - fire deal between israel and hamas . the israel military said that the target of the strike in rafah on sunday was a hamas compound , and that “ precise munitions ” had been used to target a commander and another senior militant official there . but at least 45 people , including children , were killed by the blast and by the fires it set off , according to the gaza health ministry . the ministry said that 249 people were wounded . in a speech to the israeli parliament on monday , mr . netanyahu said the military had sought to protect noncombatants , by issuing evacuation orders , adding that about a million civilians had left rafah ahead of , or during , the offensive . “ despite our supreme effort not to harm uninvolved civilians ,” he said , “ a tragic accident occurred to our regret last night .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement