israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by hamas monitored political activity , online posts , and apparently even love lives . palestinians were stuck between an israeli blockade and a repressive security force . byadam rasgonandronen bergman adam rasgon reported from jerusalem , and ronen bergman from tel aviv . the hamas leader yahya sinwar has for years overseen a secret police force in gaza that conducted surveillance on everyday palestinians and built files on young people , journalists and those who questioned the government , according to intelligence officials and a trove of internal documents reviewed by the new york times . the unit , known as the general security service , relied on a network of gaza informants , some of whom reported their own neighbors to the police . people landed in security files for attending protests or publicly criticizing hamas . in some cases , the records suggest that the authorities followed people to determine if they were carrying on romantic relationships outside marriage . hamas has long run an oppressive system of governance in gaza , and many palestinians there know that security officials watch them closely . but a 62 - slide presentation on the activities of the general security service , delivered only weeks before the oct . 7 attack on israel , reveals the degree to which the largely unknown unit penetrated the lives of palestinians . the documents show that hamas leaders , despite claiming to represent the people of gaza , would not tolerate even a whiff of dissent . security officials trailed journalists and people they suspected of immoral behavior . agents got criticism removed from social media and discussed ways to defame political adversaries . political protests were viewed as threats to be undermined . everyday gazans were stuck — behind the wall of israel ’ s crippling blockade and under the thumb and constant watch of a security force . that dilemma continues today , with the added threat of israeli ground troops and airstrikes . “ we ’ re facing bombardment by the occupation and thuggery by the local authorities ,” ehab fasfous , a journalist in the gaza strip who appeared in the files of the general security service , said in a phone interview from gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement