israel - hamaswar advertisement the report will be presented to members of the security council next week and released publicly on june 18 , the u . n . said . byfarnaz fassihiandaaron boxerman the united nations will add israel , hamas and palestinian islamic jihad to a list of countries and armed groups that harm children when it releases its annual report on children and armed conflict , citing the heavy toll the war in gaza has taken on minors , including killing , maiming and starvation , u . n . officials said . stéphane dujarric , the u . n . spokesman , said the body ’ s chief of staff called the israeli ambassador to the united nations , gilad erdan , on friday to inform him that israel would be listed this year . “ the call was a courtesy afforded to countries that are newly listed ,” mr . dujarric said , “ to give countries a heads - up and avoid leaks .” hamas , the armed group that led gaza before the war , and palestinian islamic jihad , the second - largest armed group in the enclave , will be named in the report . hamas is being cited because its fighters abducted and killed israeli children when they attacked israel on oct . 7 , a u . n . official said . armed groups that harm children in conflicts , like the taliban and boko haram , are routinely named in the annual report . the news of israel ’ s listing further strained an already deteriorating relationship between it and the united nations . mr . erdan called the move “ an immoral decision that aids terrorism and rewards terrorists .” he made a video recording of the phone call andreleased parts of it on the social media site x . mr . dujarric , the u . n . spokesman , called the release of a recording of the telephone call “ shocking and unacceptable and something i ’ ve never seen in my 25 years serving this organization .” the united nations ’ special representative for children and armed conflict prepares the yearly report under a mandate from the general assembly and the security council . the report will be presented to members of the council next friday and released publicly on june 18 , mr . dujarric said . the council will have an open debate about the report ’ s findings later this month . during hamas ’ s terrorist attack on oct . 7 , armed men kidnapped children , some of them toddlers and babies , and held them hostage in gaza . children were also among the roughly 1 , 200 israelis and foreigners killed . israel ’ s retaliatory bombing campaign and ground war in gaza has killed at least 36 , 000 people , gazan health officials say , a large portion of them women and children . the united nations has said that children in gaza also face famine and starvation because israel has restricted humanitarian aid . many children have also lost limbs or been gravely wounded in other ways . majed bamya , the palestinian deputy ambassador to the united nations , said in a post on x ,“ israeli ministers are the only ones surprised of such a development ( list will be released next week ) after the killing and maiming of so many palestinian children .” farnaz fassihiis the united nations bureau chief for the times , leading coverage of the organization , and also covers iran and the shadow war between iran and israel . she is based in new york . more about farnaz fassihi aaron boxermanis a times reporting fellow with a focus on international news . more about aaron boxerman advertisement