israel - hamaswar advertisement norway hosted the clandestine meetings in 1993 that led to the oslo accords , the framework for peace that came close to resolving the conflict . byemma bubola scores of countries have recognized a palestinian state , but norway ’ s announcement on wednesday that it would do so carried added significance because it hosted the clandestine meetings in 1993 that led to the oslo accords , the framework for peace that came close to resolving the conflict between israel and the palestinians . itultimately failed . norway calls itself a friend of israel , and the two countries have a longstanding relationship . but since oct . 7 , when israel launched a military offensive in gaza in response to hamas - led attacks , norway has also sharply condemned israel ’ s conduct of the war . norway ’ s foreign minister said in march that “ israel ’ s use of military force is having a disproportionately severe impact on the civilian population and is not in line with international humanitarian law ,” and called for a cease - fire . norway also continued to fund unrwa , the main u . n . agency that helps palestinian refugees , after several other countries stopped doing so following israel ’ s allegations that about a dozen of the agency ’ s employees had been involved in the oct . 7 attacks . in february , norway testified at theinternational court of justice , stating that israeli settlements in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem were among the biggest obstacles to peace in the region . the oslo accords were landmark agreements that included mutual recognition between the government of israel and the palestinian leadership , which was able to return to the occupied territories from exile . the accords also established the palestinian authority , which was meant to be an interim body exercising limited palestinian self - rule in the west bank and gaza strip . in 2000 , continued negotiations toward a permanent peace treaty to establish an independent palestinian state alongside an israeli one dissolved into a second palestinian uprising and an israeli military clampdown . jonas gahr store , the prime minister of norway , said on wednesday that “ a recognition of palestine is support to moderate forces that are on the defensive , in a long and gruesome conflict .” he called the recognition “ an investment in the only solution that can give lasting peace in the middle east ,” and he urged other countries to follow suit “ so that the process towards a two - state solution finally can begin again .” emma bubolais a times reporter based in london , covering news across europe and around the world . more about emma bubola advertisement