israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by despite positive statements and international urging , neither of the warring parties accepted a u . s .- backed plan to halt the war in gaza , let displaced palestinians go home and free hostages . bymichael crowley , matthew mpoke biggandthomas fuller a day after the united nations security councilendorsed a u . s .- backed cease - fire proposalfor the gaza strip , the focus shifted on tuesday to the willingness of israel and hamas , under growing international pressure to end the war , to make a deal . each side made positive but vague statements about the cease - fire plan and blamed the other for prolonging a war that has devastated gaza . but neither said it would formally embrace the proposal , which was outlined last month in a speech by president biden and was the basis of the 14 - 0 vote in the security council on monday . secretary of state antony j . blinken , touring the region for the eighth time since the hamas - led oct . 7 assault on israel , said on tuesday that the fate of the cease - fire proposal rested with hamas ’ s top leader in gaza , yahya sinwar . husam badran , a senior hamas official , countered that prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel was “ the sole obstacle to reaching an agreement that would end the war .” an israeli government official said in a statement that the proposed deal “ enables israel to achieve ” its war goals , including destroying hamas ’ s capabilities and freeing all the hostages held in gaza by hamas and its allies . but the official , who could be quoted only on that condition that the name and office be withheld , stopped short of saying whether israel would accept the agreement . mr . netanyahu has repeatedly declined to take a firm stand on the plan . last week , he sowed doubts when he called the idea of a negotiated permanent cease - fire — which hamas has called essential — a “ nonstarter .” far - right elements of his governing coalition have threatened to bolt if mr . netanyahu accepts a cease - fire , potentially toppling him from power . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement