advertisement supported by violent responses to pro - palestinian activists follow a sweeping agreement aimed at striking an equilibrium between preserving public safety and the rights of protesters . bymaria cramer last september , the new york police departmentsigned a sweeping agreement in federal courtthat was meant to end overwhelming responses to protests that often led to violent clashes , large - scale arrests and expensive civil rights lawsuits . the sight of hundreds of officers in tactical gearmoving in on pro - palestinian demonstrators in bay ridge , brooklyn , on saturdaysuggested to civil libertarians that the department might not abide by the agreement when it is fully implemented . at least two officers wearing the white shirts of commanders were filmed punching three protesters who were prone in the middle of a crosswalk . and film clips of recent campus protests showed some officers pushing and dragging students , a handful of whom later said they had been injured by the police , though many officers appeared to show restraint during the arrests . “ i think members of the public are very concerned that the police will be unwilling or unable to meet their end of the bargain ,” said jennvine wong , a staff attorney with legal aid , which , along with the new york civil liberties union , filed a lawsuit against the city over the department ’ s response to protests in 2020 afterthe killing of george floyd . that lawsuit was later combined with a complaint filed by letitia james , the state attorney general , over what she called widespread abuses during the black lives matter protests . last fall , police officials and ms . james reached the agreement in federal court , intended to strike a new equilibrium between the department ’ s need to preserve public safety and the rights of protesters . the city , along with two major police unions , agreed to develop policies and training that would teach the department to respond gradually to demonstrations , rather than sending in large numbers of officers immediately , and to emphasize de - escalation over an immediate show of force . the implementation was expected to take three years . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement