israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by unrwa , the aid agency for palestinians , is preparing to publish an investigation based on testimony from more than 100 detainees that accuses israeli troops of abuse . bymonika pronczukandpatrick kingsley to report this article , the new york times reviewed a leaked u . n . investigation , interviewed released detainees and spoke to lawyers who are researching conditions in israeli detention facilities . an unpublished investigation by the main united nations agency for palestinian affairs accuses israel of abusing hundreds of gazans captured during the war with hamas , according to a copy of the report reviewed by the new york times . the report was compiled by unrwa , the u . n . agency that is itself at the center of an investigation after accusations that at least 30 of its 13 , 000 employees participated in the hamas - led attack on southern israel on oct . 7 . the authors of the report allege that the detainees , including at least 1 , 000 civilians later released without charge , were held at three military sites inside israel . the report said the detainees included males and females whose ages ranged from 6 to 82 . some , the report said , died in detention . the document includes accounts from detainees who said they were beaten , stripped , robbed , blindfolded , sexually abused and denied access to lawyers and doctors , often for more than a month . the draft document describes “ a range of ill - treatment that gazans of all ages , abilities and backgrounds have reported facing in makeshift detention facilities in israel .” such treatment , the report concluded , “ was used to extract information or confessions , to intimidate and humiliate , and to punish .” the report is based on interviews with more than 100 of the 1 , 002 detainees who were released back to gaza by mid - february . the document estimates that 3 , 000 other gazans remain in israeli detention without access to lawyers . its findings echo those of severalisraeliandpalestinianrights groups , as well as separate investigations by twou . n . special rapporteurs , all of whom allege similar abuses inside israeli detention centers . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement