israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the decision comes as israeli authorities announced that they had rescued four hostages who had been held in gaza since oct . 7 . bymatthew mpoke biggandaaron boxerman a key member of prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s israeli war cabinet who has threatened to depart amid serious differences over the war in gaza has indefinitely postponed an expected news conference planned for saturday evening , citing “ recent events .” the decision comes as israeli authorities announced that they had rescued four hostages who had been held in gaza since oct . 7 in a “ complex ” operation in central gaza . benny gantz , a centrist opposition leader , has said he would quit unless mr . netanyahu addressed his concerns about how the war would end and what would follow it , with pressure rising on mr . netanyahu to wind down the conflict and put forward a detailed plan for governing the territory when fighting ends . last month , mr . gantz said he would resign by saturday , though there was no public indication of whether he would follow through . if he were to depart , it would be unlikely to force mr . netanyahu from office . mr . gantz and his party have not been part of the prime minister ’ s right - wing governing coalition , which has a majority of 64 seats in israel ’ s 120 - member parliament . but mr . gantz ’ s threat has again exposed the fractures within israel ’ s leadership as frustration grows at home over the failure to decisively defeat hamas or to bring home all the hostages held in gaza . mr . gantz joined the powerful war cabinet , which makes many of the decisions about the gaza conflict , after the hamas - led oct . 7 assault on israel , in a demonstration of unity in a crisis . he brought stature to the role as a former military chief of staff , former defense minister and popular opposition figure , seen as the chief political rival to mr . netanyahu . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement