france ’ s parliamentaryelections advertisement supported by the friendship between france and the u . s . endures . but tensions have mounted over the wars in gaza and ukraine , and how europe can step out of america ’ s shadow . byroger cohenandpeter baker reporting from normandy , france in the sunlight of normandy , before the surviving american veterans who eight decades ago helped turn the tide of the war against hitler , president emmanuel macron of france spoke this past week of the “ bond of blood shed for liberty ” that ties his country to the united states . it is a bond that goes all the way back to the founding of the united states in 1776 and the decisive french support for american independence against the british . tempestuous , often strained as france bristles at american postwar leadership in europe , the ties between paris and washington are nonetheless resilient . president biden ’ s five - day stay in france , an exceptionally long visit for an american president , especially in an election year , is a powerful testament to that friendship . but it illustrates its double - edged nature . french gratitude for american sacrifice as ever vies uneasily with gaullist restiveness over any hint of subservience . those competing strands will form the backdrop of a lavish state dinner at the élysée palace on saturday , when mr . macron will reciprocate the state visit that mr . bidenhosted for him at the white housein december 2022 , the first of his administration . the toasts and bonhomie will not fully mask the tensions between washington and paris — over the war in gaza , how best to support ukraine and the unpredictable ways mr . macron tries to assert france ’ s independence from the united states . no recent french president has been as insistent as mr . macron in declaring europe ’ s need for “ strategic autonomy ” and insisting that it “ should never be a vassal of the united states .” yet he has stood shoulder to shoulder with mr . biden in seeing ukraine ’ s fight for freedom against russia as no less than a battle for european liberty , an extension of the fight for freedom that led allied forces to scale the cliffs of the pointe du hoc in 1944 . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement