israel - hamaswar advertisement news analysis despite diplomatic blows this week , israeli leaders are focused on their public , which still largely views the war with hamas in gaza as an existential conflict . byaaron boxerman reporting from jerusalem israel took several tough diplomatic blows over the past week , some of which had been feared for years . yet the rising outcry against israel abroad appears not to have swayed the israeli public , whose views on the country ’ s military campaign in gaza are largely different from those of the rest of the world . just this week , karim khan , the chief prosecutor for the international criminal court , announced he wasseeking arrest warrantsfor israel ’ s prime minister and defense minister on charges of crimes against humanity , alongside three leaders of hamas ; three european countries announced they wouldrecognize a palestinian state ; and israel backed down on seizing equipment from the associated press after an international backlash . but israeli leaders are lookingfirst and foremost to their public , which , analysts say , still views the war with hamas in gaza as an existential conflict . while international support for israel has eroded over its devastating military response in gaza — with over 35 , 000 people dead , according to health authorities there — israelis have largely remained focused on the brutality of the hamas - led oct . 7 attacks and the fate of hostages taken that day . political analysts say that mr . netanyahu hopes to leverage the rising international criticism to tamp down frustration at home over his failure to either decisively defeat hamas or bring home the remaining hostages in gaza . some of mr . netanyahu ’ s key rivals rallied to his defense on monday after mr . khan announced that he would seek a warrant for his arrest . “ israel is not only isolated , but feels that it is under some kind of siege ,” said alon pinkas , a former israeli diplomat . for many israelis , memories ofthe massacre in southern israel — in which roughly 1 , 200 people were killed and 250 taken hostage , according to the israeli authorities — remain a constant backdrop to the conflict . months later , israeli news media still continually airs the stories of victims , survivors and the families of those held hostage in gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement