israel - hamaswar advertisement neither israel or hamas have said definitively whether they would accept or reject a proposal outlined by president biden , but sizable gaps between the two sides appear to remain . bymatthew mpoke bigg president biden raised hopes last week when he endorsed a plan that he said could lead to a “ cessation of hostilities permanently .” he said israel had put forward the plan , but neither israel nor hamas has said definitively that they would accept or reject the proposal , and they appear to still be locked in disagreement over fundamental issues . here ’ s a look at what is known about the cease - fire deal , which key points still must be negotiated , and the hurdles still ahead : israel and hamas agreed to a cease - fire in november that lasted for a week . but the proposal now on the table — as laid out by mr . biden , a senior u . s . administration official and israeli officials — is more ambitious . major issues remain unresolved , including whether hamas would remain in control of the gaza strip . the proposalwould unfold in three phases . inphase one , among other things , israel would withdraw from population centers in gaza during a six - week cease - fire , and dozens of women and elderly hostages held in gaza by hamas and its allies would be exchanged for hundreds of palestinian detainees in israeli prisons . during that time , talks over a permanent cease - fire would continue , and if successful , the deal would enter phase two , with the full withdrawal of israel ’ s military from the enclave . all hostages and more palestinian prisoners would be freed . under phase three , hamas would return the bodies of hostages who had died , and a three - to five - year reconstruction period , backed by the united states , european countries and international institutions , would begin . one of the key gaps between hamas and israel over the plan is the length of the cease - fire and the future role of hamas . prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel said on monday that he was open to a six - week cease - fire , according to a person who attended a closed - door meeting he held with israeli lawmakers . but publicly he has said that israel will fight until hamas ’ s governing and military capabilities are destroyed . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement