middle eastcrisis both sides have their reasons for calibrating their attacks to avoid a regional conflict . both sides have their reasons for calibrating their attacks to avoid a regional conflict . mourners at a funeral for a member of hezbollah who was killed in an israeli attack in lebanon last month . credit ... supported by byneil macfarquhar , hwaida saadandeuan ward photographs bydiego ibarra sanchez set to a peppy electronic soundtrack , a recent video clip showed what the hezbollah militia said was a missile - firing drone , a new weapon in its arsenal as it ratchets up its strikes on israel . flaunting a new weapon is the type of muscle flexing that hassan nasrallah , the organization ’ s elusive leader , crows about . “ what protects you is your strength , your courage , your fists , your weapons , your missiles and your presence in the field ,” he said in an address earlier this year . hezbollah ’ s attacks , which started last october in solidarity with hamas in the gaza war , have gradually intensified as the group uses larger and more sophisticated weapons to strike more often and deeper beyond the border between israel and lebanon . israel , too , is hitting targets farther into lebanon . the latest surge by hezbollah came this week , with a series of daily drone strikes by the militia hitting some civilian targets well into israel . senior officials starting with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu stoked their rhetorical threats against hezbollah , suggesting that a day of reckoning was close at hand . yet whenever the fighting escalates , both hezbollah and israel seem to calibrate their tit - for - tat attacks so that no strike starts a larger conflict . while concerns about a wider war remain , both sides appear hamstrung in different ways that force restraint . the video clip — released by hezbollah ’ s military media office in may — illustrates how in some ways , the group has never been stronger . its main patron , iran , has supplied an increasingly powerful range of missiles . plus hezbollah gained valuable battlefield experience after years of deploying what is believed to be at least 2 , 500 special forces troops in syria to help shore up the rule of president bashar al - assad . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement