advertisement supported by some jewish students say they ’ ve been dropped by old roommates and sorority sisters and ostracized from campus clubs and teams because of their views — which are sometimes assumed . byjoseph bernstein last fall , a barnard college sophomore named sophie fisher reached out to her freshman year roommate to catch up over coffee . her old friend ’ s response was tepid , and ms . fisher wondered why . the two had been close enough that the roommate had come to the bar mitzvah of ms . fisher ’ s brother . several months later , the reason became clear . over instagram , ms . fisher ’ s roommate wrote to her that they couldn ’ t be friends anymore because she had been posting in support of israel since the hamas attacks of oct . 7 . in other words , she was a zionist . ms . fisher thought she had been careful to avoid inflammatory posts , but the roommate , ms . fisher said , accused her of racism . then she blocked ms . fisher . around the same time , ms . fisher noticed something else strange . her “ big ” — a mentor in her sorority — had stopped talking to her . when they were in the same room , ms . fisher said , the big wouldn ’ t make eye contact with her . ms . fisher said that her big often posted about students for justice in palestine , the campus group that columbia had suspended in november for violating campus policies . ms . fisher remains in the sorority , but the two haven ’ t spoken in months . “ she was supposed to be my big sister ,” she said . this spring , college campuses became the main stage for the american protest movement against israel ’ s seven - month - old war in gaza . in april and may , dozens of pro - palestinian encampments sprang up at universities around the country , as students called for institutional divestment from ( and , at times , for the total dismantling of ) israel . the protests have been characterized by heated rhetoric around the term “ zionist ,” a word that typically refers to people who believe jews have a right to a state in their ancestral homeland in present - day israel ( regardless of how they may feel about the war in gaza ). many palestinians and those who support them associate the word with mass displacement during the 1948 war triggered by the creation of israel , as well as the killings over the past months of thousands of civilians and the decimation of gaza . throughchants , statementsand sometimesphysical obstruction , many protesters have made clear they don ’ t want to share space with people they consider zionists — and indeed , that they find the ideology unacceptable . at the university of california , los angeles , pro - palestinian studentsblocked peers who identified themselves as zionistsfrom parts of campus . given that alarge majorityof american jews say caring about israel is an important part of their jewish identity , these instances of exclusion have led to a debate over whether the encampments are de facto antisemitic . ( complicating matters , some of the most outspoken anti - zionist protesters are jewish .) we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement