donald trump ’ s approach to the bloody mideast conflict reflects the anti - interventionist shift he has brought about in republican politics — and his personal feelings about the israeli prime minister . donald j . trump has pinned the blame for the entire crisis in gaza on president biden ’ s “ weakness .” credit ... haiyun jiang for the new york times supported by byjonathan swan , maggie habermanandmichael gold in the nearly five months since hamas terrorists invaded israel on oct . 7 , igniting the most divisive foreign policy crisis of the biden presidency , donald j . trump has said noticeably little about the subject . he criticizedprime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel , before quickly retreating to more standard expressions of support for the country . and he has made blustery claims that the invasion never would have happened had he been president . but his overall approach has been laissez - faire . “ so you have a war that ’ s going on , and you ’ re probably going to have to let this play out . you ’ re probably going to have to let it play out , because a lot of people are dying ,” mr . trump said in aninterviewwith univision a month after the attack . his main advice to mr . netanyahu and the israelis , he said then , was to do a better job with “ public relations ,” because the palestinians were “ beating them at the public relations front .” mr . trump ’ s hands - off approach to the bloody middle east conflict reflects the profound anti - interventionist shift he has brought about in the republican party over the past eight years and has been colored by his feelings about mr . netanyahu , whomhe may never forgiveforcongratulating president biden for his 2020 victory . mr . trump has offered no substantive criticisms of mr . biden ’ s response to the hamas invasion and israel ’ s retaliation in gaza . instead , he has pinned the blame for the entire crisis on mr . biden ’ s “ weakness ,” in the same way he often does when violence or tragedy occurs . “ you would have never had the problem that you just had , the horrible problem where israel — oct . 7 , where israel was so horribly attacked ,” the former president told a crowd in rock hill , s . c ., on feb . 23 , before switching to more practiced attack lines against mr . biden . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement