advertisement domestic and international anger over israel ’ s response to the oct . 7 attacks has complicated president biden ’ s diplomatic and re - election efforts . bymichael crowley nearly five months since hamas militants attacked and killed about 1 , 200 people in israel , president biden has been swept into the resulting upheaval in the region . as he prepares to address the nation , he finds himself navigating a wider middle east emergency with profound moral , political and security implications for his presidency . early sympathy for israel after the oct . 7 attacks has given way to domestic and international anger over the suffering in gaza . israel ’ s subsequent military campaign to crush hamas has now killed more than 30 , 000 palestinians , according to officials in gaza , with dire shortages of food , water and medicine creating a humanitarian crisis . because israel ’ s military heavily depends on american - supplied weapons and munitions , mr . biden is under pressure at home and abroad to rein in israel and alleviate the suffering in gaza . but despite increasingly adamant calls for israel to do more to protect civilians and provide them with aid , u . s . officials say that is not happening . even so , mr . biden has restrained his criticism of israel ’ s right - wing government and resisted demands for restricting american aid to israel , often reminding the world that israel was brutally attacked and has a right to self - defense . he has ordered airdrops of aid into gaza to supplement the limited truck convoys that enter the territory from israel . but aid workers say those aerial supplies will make little difference . seeking to do more , mr . biden will announce a plan for the united states to build a floating pier off gaza that can receive more supplies . u . s . officials say their best hope is to help broker a deal between israel and hamas to pause the fighting for several weeks , allow for the release of israeli hostages held by hamas , and enable a surge of humanitarian supplies into the territory . some u . s . officials think that such a pause in combat could evolve into a longer - term cease - fire . talks among several nations to strike a deal have been underway for weeks , and u . s . officials say that israel has signed off on an offer . but hamas has yet to agree . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement