israel - hamaswar advertisement israeli bombardments and raids have put many of gaza ’ s hospitals out of operation and only a few remain even partially functional . byraja abdulrahim israeli forces massed at the entrance to a major hospital in the northern gaza strip on friday , trapping more than a dozen medical personnel inside and all but putting one of the last functioning hospitals out of operation , according to a doctor and palestinian news media . for days , the israeli military has bombarded the area around kamal adwan hospital in beit lahia , near the northernmost edge of the territory . its advance with tanks toward the northern entrances cut off access to the hospital , according to dr . eid sabbah , the head of nursing at the hospital . “ now it is considered practically , because it is besieged , not operational ,” said dr . sabbah , who had been at the hospital on thursday . many patients were receiving kidney dialysis on thursday , he said , but they also left before the military cut off access . “ the military has reached the entrances ,” he said . the blockade of kamal adwan came two days after the israeli military ordered patients and staff atal awda hospitalnearjabaliya , another major medical center in northern gaza , to evacuate on wednesday and then raided the complex . about 30 people remained there , including medical staff and patients in critical condition who could not be transferred . israeli forces destroyed doors and damaged equipment , gazan officials said . the israeli military has repeatedly besieged and assaulted gaza ’ s hospitals , contending that hamas , the armed group that led the oct . 7 attack on israel , uses them as shields , with its fighters operating within the hospitals and from tunnels beneath them . hamas and hospital administrators have denied the claims . the israeli military has taken journalists on tours of one hospital it raided and provided documents it says prove its claims about hamas and hospitals . but there has been no independent verification of the claims . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement