advertisement supported by dealbook executive communications experts say the gig is becoming a harder sell for business leaders . bysarah kessler , lauren hirschandmichael j . de la merced tim cook has delivered at least seven commencement addresses since becoming the chief executive of apple . the superstar taylor swift , whose concerts have been credited with lifting local economies , addressed new york university ’ s graduation ceremony in 2022 . bill gates , oprah winfrey , jamie dimon — they ’ ve all given graduation speeches more than once . they ’ re obviously not doing it for the money ( and typically there isn ’ t any ). instead , speakers have long seen graduation ceremonies as offering something increasingly rare : a stage where a large group of people gather to hear speakers impart wisdom , advice or whatever else they want to talk about . the appeal of being a commencement speaker , however , seems to be waning . just three fortune 50 chief executives appear to be commencement speakers this year , as colleges have faced campus protests over the war in gaza , student arrests and wealthy alumni threatening to break ties with their alma maters over antisemitism . “ the idea of c . e . o . s going out aggressively and speaking anywhere near this environment on campuses , it just doesn ’ t seem like the moment for them to be doing that ,” said david murray , the executive director of the professional speechwriters association . c . e . o . s are tired of talking . at a recent meeting of executive speechwriters , murray said one takeaway stood out . as one presenter put it ,“ less is more , in ’ 24 .” murray highlighted the sentiment in the professional speechwriters association ’ s may newsletter : “ folks will increasingly keep their leaders out of the spotlight ,” he wrote , describing the current moment as one in which “ even formerly anodyne messages encouraging employees to vote ” sound partisan to some . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement