israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis a meeting between the british foreign secretary , david cameron , and an israeli minister , benny gantz , carried more weight than usual , analysts said , and stressed the frustration of israel ’ s allies . bymark landler reporting from london when benny gantz , a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , met david cameron , britain ’ s foreign secretary , in london on wednesday , he got a sharp message that israel must do more to allow humanitarian aid to flow into gaza . it was the kind of minister - level meeting that would normally draw modest attention amid the flurry of high - level diplomacy that has enveloped the israel - hamas war . but mr . gantz and mr . cameron are no mere functionaries . mr . gantz , a former chief of staff of the israel defense forces , is a popular political rival of prime minister benjamin netanyahu , and mr . netanyahu expressed deep displeasure at what he viewed as an unsanctioned trip by a would - be israeli leader . mr . cameron , a former prime minister , has enjoyed uncommon latitude as foreign secretary , speaking out forcefully on issues like gaza and the war in ukraine on international trips , where he is often treated as though he were still in his old job . the unusual optics of the meeting — almost two shadow leaders — speak to the peculiar domestic politics in each country . israel is in the grip of a devastating war that has pulled mr . netanyahu and mr . gantz intoa temporary alliance . britain is in the twilight stages of an era of conservative - led governments , with a prime minister , rishi sunak , who ismore occupied with a general electionlater this year than with foreign policy . for britain , diplomats and experts said , deploying mr . cameron to deliver a tough message to israel is valuable because it will register more than if it came from a standard - issue cabinet minister . it also spares mr . sunak the political risk of pressing mr . netanyahu directly and potentially being rebuffed . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement