israel - hamaswar advertisement israel said it struck three classrooms used by 20 to 30 palestinian militants . gazan health authorities said that many women and children were among the dozens killed . bybilal shbair , aaron boxerman , erika solomonandabu bakr bashir a day after israeli forcesbombed a u . n . school complexin central gaza that had become a shelter for displaced palestinians , some of the facts remain unclear or under contention . israel said it struck three classrooms used by 20 to 30 palestinian militants , including some who participated in the oct . 7 hamas - led attack on israel , and that it was unaware of civilian casualties . gazan health authorities said that among the dozens of people killed , many were children and women . here is what we know and do not know . the multistory building was one of several that made up the unrwa nuseirat boys ’ preparatory school . it was one of the many schools in gaza run by the main u . n . agency for palestinian refugees and their descendants . like all ofthe territory ’ s schools , it stopped operating as a school in october , after hamas led an assault on israel , and israel began its retaliatory bombing campaign . and like many of them , it became crowded with people who , displaced by the war from homes in other parts of gaza , sought shelter in schools , hospitals and other institutions they hoped would be less likely to be bombed . philippe lazzarini , the director of the u . n . aid agency for palestinian refugees , said 6 , 000 people had been living in the school . about three - quarters of gaza ’ s roughly 2 . 2 million people have fled their homes , many of them multiple times . the israeli military has referred to the school in nuseirat as a militant base , saying that fighters for hamas and palestinian islamic jihad used three of its classrooms to plan and conduct operations against israel . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement