israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by egypt ’ s government is weighing its “ cornerstone ” relationship with israel against the economic damage the war in gaza is inflicting and against the domestic outrage over the devastation there . byaaron boxermanandthomas fuller when prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel announced plans late last year to occupy a sensitive corridor of land in the gaza strip , along the border with egypt , the response from cairo was public , explicit and ominous . “ it must be strictly emphasized that any israeli move in this direction will lead to a serious threat to egyptian - israeli relations ,” the egyptian government said in a statement in english in january , weeks after mr . netanyahu announced plans to occupy the so - called philadelphi corridor . egypt said that an israeli military presence therewould violate the 1979 peacetreaty between the two countries . this week , the israeli military announced that it had seized “ tactical control ” of the corridor . yet despite the egyptian government facing domestic pressure to take a harsher stance on israel following its military offensive in the southern gaza city of rafah , there has been no public egyptian comment on the seizure of the corridor . the silence may be a reflection of the dilemma egypt finds itself in after nearly eight months of war in gaza . egypt and israel view their relationship as a cornerstone of their national security , according to former israeli and egyptian officials , making it unlikely the egyptian government would take substantial steps against israel . peace between egypt and israel has been an anchor of middle east stability for 45 years . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement