israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the news was met with jubilation in israel , where tensions over the hostages ’ safety have been rising in recent months . byaaron boxerman , raja abdulrahimandsteve lohr israeli soldiers and special operations police rescued four hostages from gaza on saturday amid a heavy air and ground assault and flew them back to israel by helicopter to be reunited with their families . the news was met with jubilation in israel , where anxieties over the fate of the roughly 120 remaining captives have been rising after eight months of war . residents in the town of nuseirat , where the hostages were being held , reported intense bombardments during the rescue operation . khalil al - daqran , an official at a hospital in the city , told reporters that scores of palestinians had been killed and that the hospital ’ s wards and corridors were packed with the wounded . rear adm . daniel hagari , the israeli military spokesman , told reporters the rescue mission took place around 11 a . m . saturday , when forces located the four hostages in two separate buildings where they were being held by hamas militants . he said the israeli forces came under fire but managed to extract the hostages in two helicopters . one special forces police officer died . the freed hostages — noa argamani , 26 , almog meir jan , 22 , andrey kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 — were kidnapped by palestinian militants from the nova music festival during the hamas - led attack on oct . 7 , when about 1 , 200 people were killed in israel and 250 taken hostage , israel says . all four were in good medical condition and were transferred to a hospital in israel for further examinations , the israeli authorities said in a statement . the fate of the hostages has been a source of intense political pressure on the israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , amid the broader criticism that his government , for its own reasons , is in no hurry to wind down the conflict or to address the issue of who should govern gaza after the war . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement