israel - hamaswar advertisement negotiators held preliminary discussions in paris this weekend , hoping to revive the possibility of a truce , the officials said . bypatrick kingsleyandedward wong reporting from jerusalem and washington diplomats are aiming to restart negotiations for a cease - fire between israel and hamas at some point in the next week , according to three officials briefed on the process , rekindling hopes of an end to the fighting in gaza even as israel presses ahead with its campaign there . according to the officials , preliminary discussions were held this weekend in paris between david barnea , the director of israel ’ s foreign intelligence agency , the mossad ; william j . burns , the director of the c . i . a .; and the qatari prime minister , sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al thani , one of the lead mediators between israel and hamas . the officials spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter . for months , qatar , the united states and egypt have been trying to cajole israel and hamas into accepting a truce and an exchange of captives that could help bring the seven - month war to a close . but previous talks have repeatedly broken down over the length and nature of the truce : hamas wants a permanent cease - fire , allowing it to remain in charge of gaza , while israel wants to be able to continue fighting after a pause — so that it can wrest hamas from power . the other major point of contention in the last round centered on how to transition between different phases of a three - phase deal . previous sticking points have included the extent to which israeli troops should withdraw from gaza during any truce , and whether israel will allow gazans to move freely between north and south gaza . the sides have also disagreed about the number of hostages that should be released by hamas , as well as the number of palestinian prisoners that should be freed in exchange by israel . in the last round , negotiators talked about hamas possibly releasing 33 hostages , mainly women , the elderly and anyone in need of urgent medical care . more than 120 hostages remain in gaza , and roughly a quarter of them are dead , according to the latest israeli assessment . during the talks , egyptian and qatari officials have dealt directly with hamas ’ s envoys , who do not meet in person with israeli or american counterparts . egypt took the lead in the last round of negotiations , which were held in cairo , though qatari officials were also present . diplomats say that the hostage negotiations need to be completed in order to make headway in other related diplomatic initiatives . those endeavors include a regional debate about who should govern a postwar gaza ; talks over a normalization deal between israel and saudi arabia ; and negotiations for a cease - fire between israel and hezbollah , the lebanese militia that is fighting the israeli military along the israel - lebanon border . rawan sheikh ahmadcontributed reporting from haifa , israel , andjulian e . barnescontributed from washington . patrick kingsleyis the times ’ s jerusalem bureau chief , leading coverage of israel , gaza and the west bank . more about patrick kingsley edward wongis a diplomatic correspondent who has reported for the times for more than 24 years from new york , baghdad , beijing and washington . he was on a team of pulitzer prize finalists for iraq war coverage . more about edward wong advertisement