israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the interpreter there is a substantial consensus among legal experts that israel cannot continue its current rafah offensive without violating the court ’ s order . byamanda taub reporting from london i had two thoughts on friday as i listened to the chief judge of the international court of justice tell israel to halt its military offensive in rafah , the city in southern gaza to which more than a million displaced people fled earlier in the conflict . the first was thatthe court ’ s rulingwas unusually forceful : the judge said israel “ must halt ” its military offensive in rafah “ immediately .” many observers had not expected the court to issue such a direct order because it has no jurisdiction to impose similar requirements on hamas , israel ’ s opponent in the war . my second thought was that the court ’ s use of punctuation was definitely going to provoke debate . here ’ s the key part of the ruling : the state of israel shall , in conformity with its obligations under the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide , and in view of the worsening conditions of life faced by civilians in the rafah governorate : immediately halt its military offensive , and any other action in the rafah governorate , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza conditions of life that could bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part . sure enough , for several days some legal scholars have been arguing about whether the clause that begins “ which may inflict ” put conditions on the order to “ immediately halt .” has israel been told to halt its offensive , or to do so only if that offensive is about to partly or completely destroy palestinians as a group ? in some ways , the debate is a distraction . there is a substantial consensus among legal experts that israel cannot continue its current offensive in rafah without violating the court ’ s order . five leading legal scholars i contacted said the order was clear on that point , and more saidthe sameininterviewsandsocial mediapostsonline . (“ the current offensive as currently planned and executed is prohibited under any reading ,” wroteadil haque , an international law expert at rutgers university . “ this sentence means israel must halt its current military offensive in rafah ,” wrotejanina dill , the co - director of the oxford institute for ethics , law , and armed conflict .) we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement