advertisement supported by two pro - palestinian demonstrators whom the driver , reuven kahane , was arguing with were also arrested and charged . byhurubie meko a man who got into an argument with pro - palestinian demonstrators before hitting one with his car on the upper east side of manhattan on tuesday has been charged with assault , according to the police . the man , reuven kahane , 57 , was arguing with two demonstrators around 9 a . m . when he struck a 55 - year - old woman with his vehicle , the police said . in reaction , the demonstrators hit mr . kahane ’ s car . mr . kahane was charged with second - degree assault . the demonstrator who was hit , maryellen novak , was treated at weill cornell medical center for minor injuries . she was arrested and charged with criminal mischief and unlawful assembly . the other demonstrator involved , john rozendaal , 63 , was also arrested and charged with criminal mischief . mr . kahane was arraigned wednesday morning and released without bail . the manhattan district attorney ’ s office declined to prosecute ms . novak and mr . rozendaal , according to a statement . lawyers for mr . kahane , sara shulevitz and mindy meyer , said that “ more facts will come to light ” in the course of the case . “ we ’ re confident that our client will be exonerated of all charges ,” they said . according to public and genealogical records , mr . kahane is cousins with rabbi meir kahane , the brooklyn - born founder of the jewish defense league and leader of a militant anti - arab fringe movement in israelwho was killed shortly after addressing a zionist conference in new york city in 1990 . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement