israel - hamaswar advertisement a times visual analysis found that munition debris filmed at the scene was remnants of a gbu - 39 , a bomb designed and manufactured in the united states . byrobin stein , christiaan triebertandhaley willis the bombs used in the israeli strike thatkilled dozens of palestiniansin a camp for displaced people in rafah on sunday were made in the united states , according to weapons experts and visual evidence reviewed by the new york times . munition debris filmed at the strike location the next day was remnants from a gbu - 39 , a bomb designed and manufactured in the united states , the times found . u . s . officials have been pushing israel to use more of this type of bomb , which they say can reduce civilian casualties . the key detail in the weapon debris was the tail actuation system , which controls the fins that guide the gbu - 39 to a target , according to trevor ball , a former u . s . army explosive ordnance disposal technician , whoearlier identified the weapon on x . the weapon ’ s unique bolt pattern and slot where the folding fins are stowed were clearly visible in the debris , mr . ball said . the munition fragments , filmed by alam sadeq , a palestinian journalist , are also marked by a series of numbers beginning with “ 81873 .” this is the unique identifier code assigned by the u . s . government to woodward , an aerospace manufacturer based in colorado that supplies parts for bombs including the gbu - 39 . at least 45 people in kuwaiti al - salam camp 1 , which was built in early january , were killed by the blast and subsequent fires , according to the gazan health ministry . more than 240 were wounded . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement