israel - hamaswar advertisement the man ’ s death was confirmed by the hamas - controlled gaza media office , which identified him as an employee of the hamas - affiliated news agency palestine now . bymatthew mpoke bigg following the israeli rescue of four hostages in gaza on saturday , israel ’ s military said that three of them had been held in the home of a member of hamas , which it said showed that the armed group was using civilian homes to shield its activity . israeli special forces , backed by the military , intelligence and air force , raided two buildings in a neighborhood in nuseirat , a refugee camp in central gaza on saturday , rescuing almog meir jan , 22 ; andrey kozlov , 27 ; and shlomi ziv , 41 , from the home of abdallah aljamal , the military said . a fourth hostage , noa argamani , 26 , was also freed , apparently from a nearby building . more than 274 people were killed during the raid , according to gaza ’ s health ministry . the israeli military said that the death toll was less than 100 . neither the israeli military nor palestinian health officials provided a breakdown of civilians and combatants killed in the raid . mr . aljamal ’ s death was confirmed by gaza ’ s government media office on sunday , which said he had worked for the hamas - affiliated news agency , palestine now . on sunday , the israeli military said in a statement on the telegram messaging app : “ the hostages were held captive by abdallah aljamal and members of his family in their home . this isfurther evidenceof the deliberate use of civilian homes and buildings by the hamas terrorist organization to hold israeli hostages captive in the gaza strip .” israel ’ s military has said for months that civilian casualties in gaza are inevitable because hamas hides its forces within the population . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement