israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by fifa said it would solicit legal advice before taking up a motion from the palestinian football association to suspend israel over its actions in gaza and the west bank . bytariq panja reporting from bangkok fifa , soccer ’ s global governing body , on friday postponed a decision to temporarily suspend israel over its actions during the conflict in gaza , and in the west bank , saying it needed to solicit legal advice before taking up a motion submitted by the palestinian football association . the motion calling for israel ’ s suspension referred to “ international law violations committed by the israeli occupation in palestine , particularly in gaza ,” and cited violations of fifa ’ s human rights and discrimination statutes . responding toemotionally charged addressesat fifa ’ s annual congress by the head of the palestinian soccer body , jibril rajoub , fifa ’ s president , gianni infantino , said the urgency of the situation meant he would convene an extraordinary meeting of fifa ’ s top board on july 25 . before that meeting , he said , fifa will ask experts to analyze whether israel ’ s actions breach the governing body ’ s regulations . by contrast , in 2022 , fifa acted quicklyto bar russian teams and clubsfrom competitions after the country ’ s forces launched a full - scale invasion of neighboring ukraine . mr . rajoub has for years pursued sanctions against israel and its teams over a variety of issues , including freedom of movement for palestinian players and for allowing teams based in territory overseen by the palestinian soccer federation to play in israel ’ s domestic leagues . since israeli forces invaded gaza last october in retaliation for the hamas - led attacks on oct . 7 , all soccer infrastructure in the territory , including a historic stadium , has been destroyed , mr . rajoub said . israel ’ s soccer chief , moshe zuares , called the palestinian motion “ cynical .” but the possibility of even a temporary ban on its teams could have immediate consequences : israel is set to compete in the men ’ s tournament at the paris olympics around the time of the fifa meeting in july , and to begin qualifying for the 2026 men ’ s world cup later this year . both israeli and palestinian officials had used the run - up to friday ’ s congress to lobby officials from other national federations . a day earlier , at a meeting of asian soccer ’ s governing body , memberswere shown a videoshowing the effects of the war in gaza and then unanimously approved a decision to back the palestinian federation ’ s motion . palestinian officials addressed fifa ’ s 211 members twice during friday ’ s meeting , and were followed by an official from jordan who demanded action from fifa . while acknowledging the urgency of the matter , mr . infantino declined to call a vote . instead , he said , the organization ’ s 37 - member governing council would decide what to do in two months . “ fifa will mandate as of now an independent legal expertise to assess the three requests made by the palestinian football association and make sure that the status and regulations of fifa are applied in the correct way ,” he said . tariq panjais a global sports correspondent , focusing on stories where money , geopolitics and crime intersect with the sports world . more about tariq panja advertisement