israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by israel defied ominous egyptian warnings and took control of the philadelphi corridor , but the reaction from egypt , which wants to maintain its security cooperation with israel , has been muted . byvivian yee , emad mekayandisabel kershner reporting from cairo and jerusalem for weeks , talk show hosts and newspaper columnists across egypt ’ s government - managed media spoke with one voice : any israeli “ occupation ” of a buffer zone on the egypt - gaza border could violate egypt ’ s sovereignty and national security . that would deal a further blow to a relationship that israel ’ s offensive had already pushed to its lowest point in decades . but when israel ’ s military said last week that it had taken “ tactical control ” of the zone , known as the philadelphi corridor , the same government mouthpieces were quick to say that the area had nothing to do with egypt . sovereignty went unmentioned . it was the latest indication that for all the hard feelings and security fears provoked by israel ’ s devastating campaign in the gaza strip , cairo sees little choice but to protect its 1979 peace treaty with israel . the accord has generated valuable military and intelligence cooperation against egyptian insurgents and natural gas imports from israel , as well as a close relationship with the united states and billions of dollars in american aid . for israel , too , the “ cold peace ” with egypt has been an essential pillar of national security for 45 years . it has given israel a path to better relations with arab countries , some of which have normalized their ties , making israel an increasingly integral part of a regional , anti - iranian axis . for the same reasons , the united states also considers the treaty , which grew out of the camp david accords , crucial to regional stability . still , israel took the risk of upsetting that delicate balance , saying that it must control the narrow buffer zone between gaza and egypt for its own security . israel says it needs to destroy dozens of tunnels under the border that have enabled hamas to smuggle in arms — despite egypt ’ s avowals that had stopped the smuggling years ago . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement