advertisement supported by anger at the university ’ s decision to bar 13 seniors from the ceremony in the wake of campus demonstrations over the war in gaza was a flashpoint for the protest on thursday . bymaya shwayder , jenna russellandanemona hartocollis maya shwayder reported from cambridge , mass . hundreds of students walked out of harvard university ’ s commencement ceremony on thursday morning as degrees were conferred , while hundreds chanted “ let them walk !”, a reference to 13 student protesters who were not allowed to graduate after a vote wednesday by the harvard corporation , the university ’ s governing body . the walkout was a jarring reminder of continuing unrest on the cambridge campus , on a day when more than 9 , 000 graduates and their families were gathered in harvard yard for celebration and reflection . at the start of the ceremony , the university ’ s interim president , alan garber — loudly booed by some in the crowd — acknowledged the turmoil , and the possibility that “ some among us may choose to take the liberty of expressing themselves to draw attention to events unfolding in the wider world .” “ this moment of joy coincides with moments of fear and dread , grief and anger , suffering and pain ,” he said . “ elsewhere , people are experiencing the worst days of their lives .” he asked the crowd to observe a minute of silence . student speakers at the ceremony strongly criticized the harvard corporation for its vote on wednesday to bar the 13 undergraduate protesters from receiving their degrees in the wake of campus protests over the israel - hamas war . the move was seen by the students and their faculty supporters as a violation of an agreement made between administrators and students to clear their encampment from harvard yard . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement