israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the closure this month of the rafah border crossing into egypt , the only way out for civilians , has thrown an already complicated system into disarray . byhamed aleaziz reporting from washington ghada redwan , a 48 - year - old pharmacist in houston , has been trying to get her parents out of gaza for months . their bags , packed and ready to go , have been sitting by their door in rafah , the city where israel is nowconducting a military offensive . but ms . redwan has hit roadblocks at every turn . and like other palestinian americans desperate to get their relatives to safety , she has described a confounding bureaucratic maze involving the state department , the governments of israel and egypt , politicians , advocacy groups , lawyers and more . the closure this month of the rafah border crossing into egypt — the only way out for civilians — has thrown an already complicated system into disarray , leading to calls for the united states to make a more forceful effort to evacuate the relatives of american citizens . “ you feel like there ’ s nothing you can do ,” ms . redwan said in an interview . “ you live comfortably , you have money , you ’ re a u . s . citizen and your parents are suffering and there ’ s nothing you can do for them . it is just insane .” ms . redwan last spoke to her mother on monday morning , one day after an israeli strike thatkilled dozens of palestiniansin a camp for displaced people in rafah . “ there is no safe place ,” her mother told her . “ just pray for us .” since the start of the war seven months ago , more than 1 , 800 american citizens and their families have left gaza with the assistance of the state department , u . s . officials say . they are only a fraction of the hundreds of thousands of gazans desperate to leave as the already dire conditions there deteriorate . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement