israel - hamaswar advertisement news analysis the recognition of palestinian statehood by spain , ireland and norway highlights the changing center of gravity , but there also are staunchly pro - israel nations in europe . bymatina stevis - gridneff reporting from brussels in europe , long a vital source of support for israel , the political center of gravity is moving away from prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s government . spain , ireland and norway on wednesday recognized palestinian statehood , despite vehement israeli and american opposition . and most european governments offered unequivocal support to the international criminal court this week , after it requested arrest warrants for israel ’ s prime minister and defense minister , along with leaders of hamas . israel still has staunch allies within the european union , especially hungary and the czech republic , and key players like germany , despite growing discomfort with israel ’ s conduct , have not shown any inclination to alter their stance . the growing fissures within europe mean that the consensus - driven european union will not change its positions any time soon . but european countries face rising international and domestic pressure to take a firmer stand against israel ’ s handling of the palestinian territories , and particularly the devastating war in gaza . sweden prominently became one of a handful of european union members to recognize palestinian statehood a decade ago . europe has long supported the eventual creation of a palestinian state — the “ two - state solution ” that israel ’ s government steadfastly opposes — and voiced frustration with israel ’ s handling of the gaza strip and the occupied west bank , but most nations have been unwilling to go further . instead , the european union , before the war , was moving closer to israel , including through financially and politically important partnerships in trade and science . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement