advertisement supported by the new rules , which would also significantly rein in demonstrations at the university in other ways , come on the heels of a nationwide wave of student activism against israel ’ s actions in gaza . byanemona hartocollis the university of pennsylvania issued temporary rules on thursday that significantly rein in protests on campus and , for the first time , explicitly ban encampments . the action came less than a month afterthe police cleared away a pro - palestinian encampmentat the university and arrested 33 people . scores of encampments protesting israel ’ s war in gazahave sprung up at universitiesacross the country this spring , leading to more than 3 , 000 arrests since mid - april and heightened tensions between students and universities . “ to ensure the safety of the penn community and to protect the health and property of individuals , encampments and overnight demonstrations are not permitted in any university location , regardless of space ( indoor or outdoor ),” penn ’ s new rules for protests say , adding , “ unauthorized overnight activities will be considered trespassing and addressed .” the rules also forbid protests that prevent speakers on campus from expressing their views or “ other members of the community from hearing or seeing the speaker .” and they bar students from projecting slogans onto buildings or writing slogans on them in semi - permanent or permanent chalk or marker . penn ’ s administration said that the new rules , which will be reviewed by a faculty - led task force in the 2024 - 25 academic year , were issued in response to calls for more clarity about what was permitted on campus . the administration said that the rules “ aim to enable free expression while allowing penn to deliver its core missions of teaching , research , service and patient care without disruption .” the university said that students who violated the rules would face disciplinary action , but did not go into details . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement