israel - hamaswar advertisement an eight - mile - long strip of land between the gaza strip and egypt is the latest focus of the israeli assault on hamas . bymatthew mpoke bigg israel ’ s announcement on wednesday that its forces had gained control over a strip of land that runs along the gaza strip ' s southern border suggested that it had fulfilled one of the goals of the country ’ s war against hamas , but it portends further isolation for palestinians in the enclave . here ’ s a look at the importance of the border strip to israel , to palestinians and to egypt : it is land around 100 yards wide that runs roughly eight miles from israel ’ s border to the mediterranean . the new border , which divided the city of rafah , was set up under the egypt - israel peace treaty of 1979 . to the northeast is gaza , while egypt lies to the southwest . egyptian border guards have been policing the land under an agreement with israel made in 2005 when israeli forces withdrew from gaza . the israelis used the code name philadelphi for the strip , while egyptian officials call it salah al din . senior israeli officials had set control of the strip , which in israel is called the philadelphi corridor , as a military objective . hamas had dug tunnels beneath the strip — some wide enough for trucks , according to military experts — and used them to smuggle weapons and personnel into gazan territory . “ this is the way they can get in and out without asking the israelis ,” said ahron bregman , a political scientist and expert in middle east security issues at king ’ s college in london , who is a former israeli military officer . unless the tunnels are blocked , he said in a previous interview , hamas could rebuild its military capacity after the war . during other regional conflicts , egypt has opened its borders to refugees , but the government of president abdel fattah el - sisi fears that if palestinian civilians crossed the border to escape the war they could destabilize the country and become a drag on its economy . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement