advertisement supported by protesters marched through campus , pitched tents and occupied various quads in demonstrations that became confrontational at times . transcript “ are you ok , are you ok ?” “ don ’ t hit him . don ’ t hit .” “ wrong person , wrong person , wrong person .” “ i was just holding you .” byjonathan wolfeandjill cowan reporting from los angeles pro - palestinian demonstrators at the university of california , los angeles , clashed with law enforcement officers on monday , sometimes physically , as they attempted to occupy outdoor areas and re - establish a protest encampment in the last days of the spring quarter . more than 20 of the protesters were arrested on monday night and were released after being given misdemeanor citations for disrupting the campus . the demonstration began earlier monday in the form of a funeral procession , winding its way through campus as protesters read the names of palestinians killed during the israel - hamas war . it was the latest indication that protesters intended to remain vocal , ahead of commencement ceremonies later this week and a wednesday decision from the university of california regents about who u . c . l . a .’ s next chancellor will be . the university has experienced a tumultuous spring . violent attacks by supporters of israel began on the night of april 30 , followed about a day later by the dismantlement of a pro - palestinian encampment , involving hundreds of arrests . administrators had allowed that encampment to stand for days , but on monday , scores of police officers and private security guards moved in swiftly . in one instance , they rushed in to confront protesters who tried to barricade themselves in a courtyard . in another instance , two officers pointed nonlethal weapons toward protesters as another demonstrator was being arrested and taken into a campus building . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement