advertisement supported by demonstrators had taken over the office at dawn and demanded that stanford university trustees vote on divestment from companies said to support israel ’ s military . byheather knight reporting from stanford university police officers arrested 13 people on wednesday after pro - palestinian protesters barricaded themselves in the office of the president of stanford university and demanded that administrators meet several demands , including a vote by the university trustees on whether to divest from companies that are said to support israel ' s military . the administration offices , located in building 10 , were cleared within about three hours , according to dee mostofi , a campus spokeswoman , who said that there was “ extensive damage .” several sandstone walls and pillars on the exterior of buildings on the university ’ s historic main quad were marked with graffiti that criticized the police , stanford , israel and the united states . protesters had entered the building around 5 : 30 a . m . on wednesday , and university police officers arrived at the scene after they were alerted of the occupation , according to ms . mostofi . the building houses the offices of the university ’ s president , richard saller , and provost , jenny martinez , among others . one officer was injured during the arrests , ms . mostofi said , adding that any students who were arrested will be suspended and those who are seniors will not be allowed to graduate . “ we are appalled that our students chose to take this action , and we will work with law enforcement to ensure that they face the full consequences allowed by law ,” ms . mostofi said in a statement . wednesday is the final day of classes for the spring quarter at stanford . a security guard stationed on the main quad warned students who were bicycling or walking to their last classes of the academic year that they would see disturbing graffiti . the spray - painted slogans included “ pigs taste best dead ” and “ death 2 israehell .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement