israel - hamaswar west bank dispatch since the war in gaza began , armed israeli settlers , often accompanied by the army , have stepped up seizures of land long used by palestinians . west bank dispatch since the war in gaza began , armed israeli settlers , often accompanied by the army , have stepped up seizures of land long used by palestinians . a settler herds goats outside the newly expanded settlement of tekoa . credit ... supported by byben hubbard photographs bysergey ponomarev ben hubbard reported from two towns in the occupied west bank , the arab - palestinian community of tuqu and the jewish - israeli settlement of tekoa . from the outskirts of his town in the west bank , the mayor surveyed the rocky hills stretching toward the dead sea where palestinians had long farmed and herded , and pointed out the new features of the landscape . new guard posts manned by israeli soldiers . new roads patrolled by israeli settlers . and , most tellingly , a new metal gate blocking the town ’ s sole road to those areas , installed and locked by the israeli army to keep palestinians out . “ anyone who goes to the gate , they either arrest him or kill him ,” said the mayor , moussa al - shaer , of the town of tuqu . on the other side of the gate , atop a bald hill in the distance , stood one of the area ’ s new residents , abeer izraeli , a jewish settler . “ with god ’ s help , we will stay here a long time ,” mr . izraeli said . the case of the two people on either side of the gate is a particularly clear example of a dynamic playing out across the israeli - occupied west bank . as much of the world has focused on the war in gaza , jewish settlers miles away in the west bank have hastened the rate at which they are seizing land previously used by palestinians , rights groups say . 10 miles mediterranean sea tel aviv west bank jerusalem israel tekoa tuqu gaza strip dead sea by the new york times we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement