israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by delivering supplies into gaza , especially the north , has taken on increased urgency as the united nations has warned that many gazans are on the edge of famine . byadam rasgonandhiba yazbek adam rasgon reported from jerusalem and hiba yazbek from amman , jordan days after an aid delivery in gaza turned into a deadly disaster , israel pushed ahead with another convoy bound for northern gaza on sunday , a palestinian businessman involved in the initiative said , as the united nations warned that deaths of children and infants are likely to “ rapidly increase ” if food and medical supplies are not delivered immediately . izzat aqel , the businessman , said the renewed aid delivery effort on sunday came after only one of at least 16 trucks carrying supplies to the north a day earlier made it to gaza city . the rest , he said , had been surrounded by desperate gazans and emptied in the nuseirat neighborhood in central gaza . cogat , the israeli agency responsible for coordinating aid deliveries into gaza , said on x on sunday that 277 trucks entered gaza , what the agency said was the highest number of trucks to enter the enclave in a single day since the start of the war . it was unclear how many of those trucks reached northern gaza . delivering supplies into gaza , especially the north , has taken on increased urgency in recent days as the united nations has warned that many gazans are on the edge of famine . israeli officials have worked in recent days with multiple gazan businessmen to organize private aid convoys . but a convoy that arrived in gaza city before dawn on thursday ended in devastation . more than 100 palestinians were killedafter many thousands of people massed around trucks laden with food and supplies , gazan health officials said . israeli and palestinian officials and witnessesoffered sharply divergent accountsof the chaos . witnesses described extensive shooting by israeli forces , and doctors at gaza hospitals said most of the casualties were from gunfire . the israeli military said most of the victims were trampled in a crush of people trying to seize the cargo , although israeli officials acknowledged that troops had opened fire at members of the crowd who , the army said , had approached “ in a manner that endangered them .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement