critic ’ s notebook the character known as handala , created by naji al - ali in 1969 , is making an imprint on art and as a protest symbol . columbia students occupying hamilton hall — which they renamed hind ’ s hall — in april unfurled a banner with the palestinian cartoon character handala , a boy with his back turned . credit ... bing guan for the new york times supported by byaruna d ’ souza when pro - palestinian student protesters took over hamilton hall at columbia university last month and renamed it “ hind ’ s hall ,” thebannerthey unfurled contained images of a cartoon character created over 50 years ago that symbolizes the resilience of palestinians . on either side of the text were two images of a barefoot boy with tattered clothes and spiky hair , his back turned to us . the character is called handala ( variously transliterated as hanzala or handzala ), a name derived from a native plant that is deep - rooted , persistent and bears bitter fruit , and has become a potent symbol of the palestinian struggle . the image was created by thepalestinian political cartoonist naji al - aliin 1969 , one of the most widely read cartoonists in the arab world , who was murdered in london in 1987 . ( the case remains unsolved .) handala is 10 years old , the same age that ali was when he became a refugee in 1948 . after the arab - israeli war of 1973 , also known as the yom kippur war , ali exclusively depicted handala with his back turned , a gesture that transformed him into a silent witness of the horrors and outrages going on around him . the stance , according to the cartoonist , represented a rejection of the political machinations of foreign nations when it came to the fate of ordinary palestinians . margaret olin , a religious studies scholar at the yale divinity school and co - author of “ the bitter landscapes of palestine ,” has been photographing handala ’ s appearance in murals and as graffiti during her visits to the gaza strip and the west bank over the past decade . “ it ’ s become a symbol of the whole palestinian movement to return to their former homes ,” she said in a telephone interview . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement