israel - hamaswar advertisement the vice president expects to discuss the urgency of a hostage deal and getting food and supplies to palestinian civilians with a member of netanyahu ’ s war cabinet . byerica l . greenandaaron boxerman vice president kamala harris is scheduled to meet with benny gantz , a member of the israeli war cabinet , in washington on monday , according to a white house official and a spokesman for mr . gantz . during the meeting with mr . gantz , ms . harris is expected to discuss the urgency of securing a hostage deal , which would allow for a temporary cease - fire , and the need to significantly increase aid into gaza , according to the white house official , who provided details on the condition of anonymity . the meeting , which is scheduled to take place at the white house , comes as the biden administration faces pressure to help secure a temporary cease - fire and hostage deal in the israel - hamas war and to more forcefully address the escalating humanitarian catastrophe in gaza . on saturday , another senior administration official , who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive diplomatic efforts , told reporters that negotiations were continuing , and that israel had “ more or less accepted ” a framework for the deal and that the ball was now in hamas ’ s court . the proposal could lead to a six - week pause in the fighting , as well as the release of some of the hostages held in gaza and palestinian prisoners in israel . president biden had expressed hope that a deal could be reached by monday as u . s . officials said they were working to secure a deal by the start of ramadan , the muslim holy month that will start this year around march 10 . the united states also delivered its firstairdrop of food into gaza on saturdayamid warnings that the besieged enclavewas on the brink of famine . israel has imposed tight restrictions on the entry of humanitarian aid , even as international relief organizations have suspended some convoys because of rising anarchy and the looting of some aid trucks inside gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement