israel - hamaswar advertisement three air force cargo planes dropped 38 , 000 ready - to - eat meals in gaza , but critics called that insufficient . a u . s . official said it was the beginning of a broader campaign . bymichael crowley reporting from washington the united states made its first airdrops of humanitarian aid into gaza on saturday , as the biden administration tried to prevent a greater humanitarian disaster in the palestinian territory . three u . s . air force cargo planes airdropped 38 , 000 ready - to - eat meals , in a joint operation with the jordanian air force , u . s . central command said in a statement on saturday . the airdrops , which some aid experts criticized as insufficient and largely symbolic , contribute “ to ongoing u . s . government efforts to provide lifesaving humanitarian assistance to the people in gaza ,” the statement said . “ we are conducting planning for potential follow - on airborne aid delivery missions .” one of the u . s . officials briefing reporters on the operation on saturday said that 66 pallets had been dropped over gaza . the official said that drop sites had been chosen in relatively safe areas where people are sheltering and in need . the u . s . did not coordinate its operation with hamas or any other group on the ground , the official said . the operation was intended to be the first in a sustained campaign of airdrops , the official said , adding that the united states is also exploring other avenues of bringing more aid into gaza , including by sea . the official and others at the briefing spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss military operations and diplomatic efforts . the drops came a day after president biden said the united states would find new ways to get aid to palestinians in desperate need because of israel ’ s five - month military campaign to destroy hamas . it also comes two days aftermore than 100 palestinians were killedas israeli forces opened fire around a convoy of aid trucks in northern gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement