advertisement supported by new york city will give schools the option to send eighth - graders on field trips to the museum of jewish heritage as part of an effort to address antisemitism . byemma g . fitzsimmons as tension continues to simmer over the israel - hamas war , new york city officials have embraced a privately funded initiative to send all eighth graders in public and charter schools to visit the museum of jewish heritage . the program , part of a $ 2 . 5 million public - private partnership to address antisemitism , will be seeded with $ 1 million from a foundation run by jon gray , the president of the investment firm blackstone . the citywide field trip plan , which was announced on thursday , will center on the museum ’ s efforts to educate younger visitors about the holocaust . the initiative comes as schools grapple with questions about how to approach the israel - hamas war and what to teach about the history of the conflict . it will be optional for schools and will start this fall . inplaces like california , there have beenpushes for teaching pro - palestinian lessonsin schools . leaders in new york city ’ s school system , which is particularly diverse , with tens of thousands of jewish , muslim and arab students , are moving to offernew curriculum materials about antisemitism and islamophobia . new york is one of nearly two dozen states that are required to teach students about the holocaust , andlawmakers included $ 500 , 000 in the state budgetthis year to review and update holocaust curriculums in schools . the field trip program was created by julie menin , a jewish city councilwoman from manhattan whosemother and grandmother survived the holocaustin hungary . she said that she was worried about a rise in antisemitic attacks in the city . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement