israel - hamaswar advertisement as the muslim holy month of ramadan approaches , the move may reduce tensions at the aqsa mosque compound , which has long been a flashpoint for unrest . byadam sella reporting from tel aviv the israeli government has decided against putting new restrictions on access to an important mosque in jerusalem during the muslim holy month of ramadan , a move that may reduce tensions at a site that has long been a flashpoint for unrest . at a meeting on tuesday night led by prime minister benjamin netanyahu , security officials decided to let a similar number of worshipers enterthe aqsa mosque compoundduring ramadan as they had in previous years , mr . netanyahu ’ s office said . ramadan , whose start is tied to the sighting of the crescent moon , is expected to begin in a few days . israel has long restricted access to the compound , which is sacred to muslims and jews alike , during ramadan for palestinians from the israeli - occupied west bank . this year , itamar ben - gvir , the far - right national security minister , called on the governmentto impose limits on arab citizens of israel as well . the decision on tuesday put an end to the plan promoted by mr . ben - gvir , but it allowed some wiggle room . “ a weekly assessment of the security and safety aspects will be held ; a decision will be made accordingly ,” a statement from the prime minister ’ s office said . the mosque compound has regularly been the scene of violent clashes . confrontations at the site in may 2021contributed to the outbreakof an 11 - day war between israel and hamas . with ramadan nearing as the current israel - hamas war enters its sixth month , the fear of escalation at the site has intensified . on tuesday , president joe biden said that if a cease - fire deal was not reached by ramadan , “ it ’ s going to be very dangerous .” mansour abbas , an arab israeli member of the knesset , the israeli parliament , praised the decision . “ i congratulate the prime minister for the responsible decision to allow muslim worshipers at al aqsa mosque freedom of worship ,” he wrote on x , formerly twitter . mr . ben - gvir , however , expressed concern that the decision would undermine israel ’ s effort to destroy the militant group hamas , which attacked israel on oct . 7 . “ hamas celebrations on the temple mount ≠ complete victory ,” he wrote on x , using the name used by jews to refer to al aqsa . hamas previously condemned any israeli restrictions on worship at al aqsa . on monday , a hamas leader called on palestinians to turn the mosque into a site of confrontation . palestinians in the israeli - occupied west bank and jerusalem should “ turn every moment of ramadan into a clash and confrontation with the enemy to protect al aqsa ,” osama hamdan , a hamas leader based in beirut , told a conference of muslim scholars by video . in muslim tradition , the prophet muhammad ascended to heaven from the site of al aqsa , and tens of thousands of muslims visit the mosque every day during ramadan . for jews , the area is revered as the temple mount because it was the site of two jewish temples in antiquity that remain central to jewish identity . matthew mpoke biggcontributed reporting . advertisement