israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by nyu langone health gave the nurse , hesen jabr , an award for her work . she said hospital officials then fired her because she made pro - palestinian remarks in an acceptance speech . byjoseph goldstein earlier this month , nyu langone health bestowed an award on a labor and delivery nurse for providing compassionate care to mothers who had lost babies . but shortly after , the nurse said , the hospital fired her over the speech she gave when she accepted the award . in it , she spoke of the suffering of palestinian women amid the israel - hamas war , which she called a “ genocide .” the nurse , hesen jabr , is not the first medical worker to be fired at nyu langone , a major new york hospital system , over commentary about the israeli - palestinian conflict . the hospitalis currently embroiled in a lawsuitby a prominent cancer researcher , whowas fired from his jobas the director of its cancer center after he posted a variety of anti - hamas political cartoons . some included offensive caricatures of arab people . a young doctor - trainee was also “ removed from service ” at an nyu langone hospital on long island , according to the hospital , after being accused of posting a message on instagram defending the oct . 7 hamas attack on israel — though he was later quietly reinstated . in her speech , accordingto a video she posted on social media , ms . jabr drew a connection between her work with grieving mothers in new york and the war in gaza . “ it pains me to see the women from my country going through unimaginable losses themselves during the current genocide in gaza ,” said ms . jabr , who is palestinian - american . “ this award is deeply personal to me for those reasons .” she added , “ even though i can ’ t hold their hands and comfort them as they grieve their unborn children and the children they have lost during this genocide , i hope to keep making them proud as i keep representing them here at nyu .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement