israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by video footage showed people running for cover as a powerful airstrike exploded near them . the attack appeared to have hit a market . byraja abdulrahim the israeli operation to rescue four hostages in the town of nuseirat in central gaza on saturday unleashed a heavy aerial bombardment and ground operations that killed more than 200 people , according to two hospital officials in the area . residents there said it was the heaviest onslaught they could recall during the eight - month - old war . one hospital official said israel struck a busy market , and video footage from the immediate aftermath of the attack showed bloodied bodies on the ground in what appeared to be a market that was struck . other video footage showed people running for cover as a powerful airstrike exploded near them . dr . khalil daqran , the spokesman for al - aqsa martyrs hospital in nearby deir al - balah , and marwan abu nasser , the acting administrative director of al - awda hospital in nuseirat , said their two hospitals had received a total of more than 200 dead and many of the wounded from the attack on saturday . many of those killed were women and children , the hospital officials said . israel ’ s military spokesman , rear adm . daniel hagari , estimated the number of casualties to be under 100 , without specifying whether these were dead or wounded or both . the new york times could not independently verify the death toll and it was not clear how many were civilians and how many were hamas militants . hours later some of the dead had already been buried by their families while others had yet to be claimed , according to dr . daqran . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement