israel - hamaswar advertisement algeria , the only arab representative in the current makeup of the security council , drafted the resolution . byfarnaz fassihi seeking to harness the outrage over an israeli strike on sunday that set fire to an encampment and killed at least 45 displaced palestinians , including children , many diplomats at the united nations security council are backing a new resolution this week that would demand an immediate cease - fire and a halt to israel ’ s military operations in the city of rafah . but they will have to overcome the objections of the united states , which has veto power on the council and has signaled it will not support the resolution in its current form . algeria , the only arab representative in the current makeup of the security council , drafted and circulated the one - page resolution , which says that “ israel , the occupying power , shall immediately halt its military offensive , and any other action in rafah .” it calls for “ an immediate cease - fire respected by all parties , and also demands the immediate and unconditional release of all hostages .” the council held back - to - back meetings on the war in gaza on tuesday and wednesday , first an emergency session behind closed doors about the strike on the encampment in rafah and then a scheduled monthly open meeting on the israeli - palestinian conflict . algeria ’ s resolution was expected to go to a vote in the coming days . “ the human cost is self - evident and appalling ,” algeria ’ s ambassador , amar bendjama , told the council on wednesday . “ these crimes speak for themselves .” one u . s . official , who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly , said the united states would block the current version of the resolution , which it views as unbalanced and problematic . he said that the united states had proposed a number of revisions . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement