advertisement the campaigns have been fragmented , organized with far less time and resources than michigan ’ s operation . byanjali huynh organizers in several super tuesday states are calling on voters to oppose president biden at the ballot box over his stance on the war in israel and gaza , building on momentum that began last month in michigan . more than 101 , 000 michigandersvoted “ uncommitted ” in the state ’ s democratic primary , after a group of young arab americans started a campaign encouraging voters to protest mr . biden ’ s alliance with israel — earning two delegates to the democratic national convention . inspired by the campaign , pro - palestinian groups around the country started similar efforts to push the president to call for a permanent cease - fire . in colorado , a group of palestinian activists scrambled to create a social media campaign for the state ’ s “ noncommitted delegate ” optionwhile michigan returns were still coming in last week . in minnesota , organizers knocked on doors and held get - out - the - vote events to promotethe “ uncommitted ” category , with outreach to muslim somali americans and young voters . and in massachusetts , thousands of protestersat a rally in cambridgechanted “ no preference ,” the similar designated protest option . the campaigns have been fragmented , organized with far less time and resources than michigan ’ s operation . many were planned in a matter of days , well after early voting had already begun , and several organizers declined to articulate specific benchmarks for what would constitute success on tuesday night beyond the goal of seeing mr . biden move his position . ( organizers in minnesota said they were aiming for 5 , 000 “ uncommitted ” votes , a low target that was about double what the category received in the 2020 democratic primary .) the other states also lack michigan ’ s position in the broader backlash to mr . biden ’ s policy : the state has a sizable arab american population , for whom the issue has been particularly painful , and ahead of the vote , prominent democrats in the statewarned about the potentialfor political peril . the “ uncommitted ” effort drew the backing of representative rashida tlaib , a member of the group of liberals in the house known as the squad . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement