israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by israel ’ s ministry of diaspora affairs ordered the operation , which used fake social media accounts urging u . s . lawmakers to fund israel ’ s military , according to officials and documents about the effort . bysheera frenkel reporting from tel aviv israel organized and paid for an influence campaign last year targeting u . s . lawmakers and the american public with pro - israel messaging , as it aimed to foster support for its actions in thewar in gaza , according to officials involved in the effort and documents related to the operation . the covert campaign was commissioned by israel ’ s ministry of diaspora affairs , a government body that connects jews around the world with the state of israel , four israeli officials said . the ministry allocated about $ 2 million to the operation and hired stoic , a political marketing firm in tel aviv , to carry it out , according to the officials and the documents . the campaign began in october and remains active on the platform x . at its peak , it used hundreds of fake accounts that posed as real americans on x , facebook and instagram to post pro - israel comments . the accounts focused on u . s . lawmakers , particularly ones who are black and democrats , such as representative hakeem jeffries , the house minority leader from new york , and senator raphael warnock of georgia , with posts urging them to continue funding israel ’ s military . chatgpt , the artificial intelligence - powered chatbot , was used to generate many of the posts . the campaign also created three fake english - language news sites featuring pro - israel articles . the israeli government ’ s connection to the influence operation , which the new york times verified with four current and former members of the ministry of diaspora affairs and documents about the campaign , has not previously been reported . fakereporter , an israeli misinformation watchdog , identified the effort in march . last week , meta , which owns facebook and instagram , andopenai , which makes chatgpt , said they had also found and disrupted the operation . the secretive campaign signals the lengths israel was willing to go to sway american opinion on the war in gaza . the united states has long been one of israel ’ s staunchest allies , with president biden recently signinga $ 15 billion military aid packagefor the country . but the conflict has beenunpopular with many americans , who have called for mr . biden to withdraw support for israel in the face of mounting civilian deaths in gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement