israel - hamaswar advertisement the move , though unlikely to force prime minister benjamin netanyahu from office , exposed the fractures within israel ’ s leadership eight months into the war in gaza . byadam rasgon reporting from jerusalem the israeli politician benny gantz , a key member of the country ’ s war cabinet , quit the government on sunday over prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s handling of the war in gaza . the resignation dealt a blow to the appearance of unity that mr . netanyahu was able to marshal at the start of the conflict and exposed the divisions at the top of the israeli leadership over the future of the war and its aftermath . mr . gantz , a centrist figure who last month threatened to resign unless mr . netanyahu addressed his concerns about how the war would end and what would follow it , said his party was leaving the emergency government “ with a heavy but complete heart .” he said that mr . netanyahu ’ s leadership was “ preventing us from advancing to the real victory .” the move is unlikely to force mr . netanyahu from office — the prime minister ’ s government will still hold a narrow majority in israel ’ s parliament . mr . gantz ’ s exit comes as frustration mounts over the failure to decisively topple hamas or to bring home all the hostages held in gaza after the oct . 7 terrorist attack on southern israel . mr . netanyahu has also faced international criticism as the destruction and civilian casualties have mounted in gaza . last month , mr . gantz set a saturday deadline for mr . netanyahu to meet his demands for answers on a host of issues , including a plan to return hostages held in gaza . he scheduled a news conference for saturday , but postponed his remarks after israeli authorities announcedthe rescue of four hostages . in televised remarks on sunday evening , mr . gantz offered his view of a “ real victory ,” saying it included prioritizing the return of hostages over one ’ s political survival — a clear jab at the prime minister . he also said it would combine “ military success ” with a diplomatic initiative , toppling hamas and replacing it with an alternative government . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement