israel - hamaswar advertisement the president was speaking off the cuff to a lawmaker on the house chamber floor after delivering his state of the union address . byerica l . green reporting from washington president biden said on thursday that he and prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel were headed toward a “ come - to - jesus meeting ” over the humanitarian crisis in gaza , according to an audio clip of the president ’ s remarks posted on social media on friday . mr . biden ’ s comment highlights the rising tensions between him and mr . netanyahu in recent weeks , as the civilian death toll in gaza has risen inexorably and mr . biden has come under political pressure at home and abroad to do more to compel israel to agree to a cease - fire . in recent days , mr . biden had expressed hope that at least a six - week cease - fire deal would be in place by ramadan , the muslim holy month that starts in a few days . but israel and hamas have reached an impasse in negotiations to recover vulnerable hostages taken during the oct . 7 attack in israel in exchange for a permanent cease - fire and the withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza . on friday , when asked by reporters if a deal could still be reached by ramadan , mr . biden said , “ it ’ s looking tough .” the president ’ s earlier “ come - to - jesus ” comments were captured on a hot microphone during what mr . biden thought was a private exchange with senator michael bennet , democrat of colorado , after the state of the union address . according to a recording of the conversation , mr . bennet encouraged the president to “ keep pushing ” on the issue of humanitarian assistance to gaza as israel fights its war against hamas , a war for which the united states has provided funding and weaponry . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement