israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by palestinian and israeli officials offered differing accounts of a deadly scene in northern gaza , in which local health officials said more than 100 people were killed . byhiba yazbekandaaron boxerman israeli forces opened fire on thursday as a crowd gathered near a convoy of aid trucks in gaza city in a chaotic scene in which scores were killed and injured , according to gazan officials and the israeli military , which attributed most of the deaths to a stampede . although officials from both sides offered differing accounts , the deaths of so many people who were surrounding a convoy carrying food in a part of gaza where starvation is rampant reflected the desperation and spiraling lawlessness in the territory following israel ’ s ground invasion and threatened to derail ongoing cease - fire talks . the gazan health ministry said in a statement that israeli forces had killed more than 100 people and had injured 700 others in a “ massacre ,” as they waited for food from the convoy . the latest bloodshed came as gaza ’ s health officials reported that the death toll from the war had risen above 30 , 000 , a grim milestone that intensified pressure on israel to end its military offensive . transcript thousands of desperately hungry civilians in northern gaza gathered on the street before dawn on thursday , hoping to find food on a humanitarian convoy . instead , hundreds were killed and injured trying to get aid from the trucks , according to gazan health officials . local hospital staff said scores were killed or wounded by gunfire . the israel defense forces claim that most of the victims were trampled or run over by vehicles , and that their soldiers only fired at a group of people who were threatening their forces . israeli officials declined to provide unedited footage of the incident . the fragments of drone footage they released only add to the confusion around the series of events that killed and wounded so many gazans . i . d . f . footage shows hundreds of civilians surrounding aid trucks on the coastal al - rashid road in gaza city . throngs of people crowd around each truck , hoping to catch bags of food as they are tossed off the back . at one point , people in the crowd suddenly appear to panic and run in multiple directions . the i . d . f . says that this footage shows a mass stampede where gazans are trampled , but the quality and short length of the clips makes it difficult to confirm these claims . another clip in the i . d . f . footage shows two israeli tanks a quarter - mile down the road and at least a dozen bodies lying nearby . the video doesn ’ t show the events that caused the casualties , but several people can be seen crawling and ducking for cover . other video , filmed from a side street by an al jazeera camera crew , helps fill in some of the gaps about what unfolded on the ground . it captures shots fired as crowds of people scatter and take cover . it is not clear when this footage was filmed in relation to the i . d . f . drone video , but what is clearly visible is tracer ammunition , a specialized type of projectile that ignites to illuminate its path , which helps troops fine - tune their targeting . the source of the fire is not captured in the footage , but the trajectory shows it ’ s coming from the direction where israeli military vehicles are positioned , just a half - mile away . an israeli military spokesman , rear adm . daniel hagari , said that israeli soldiers fired warning shots in the air before firing “ only in face of danger when the mob moved in a manner which endangered them .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement