advertisement the actions came as the university chancellor testified before congress . the university said that it was not aware of the police making any arrests . transcript whose university ? our university ! whose university ? our university ! byjonathan wolfe , grace whitakerandnicholas bogel - burroughs jonathan wolfe and grace whitaker reported from los angeles , and nicholas bogel - burroughs from new york . pro - palestinian demonstrators at the university of california , los angeles , briefly formed a new encampment and then took over a campus building on thursday before police officers in riot gear moved in to disband the efforts . the protests , which drew hundreds of people , came on the same day that the u . c . l . a . chancellorwas grilled in a hearing on capitol hillover his handling of a similar encampment last month . by the afternoon , about 70 protesters had entered dodd hall , an academic building , sealing off doors with computer cables and jackets . one protester , speaking into a megaphone , asked anyone not affiliated with u . c . l . a . to leave and acknowledged the ad hoc nature of the protest : “ we ’ re building this plane as we fly it .” but just a few hours after the protesters had gotten inside , police officers in riot gear barged in and cleared the building — a contrast to what republicans lawmakers criticized as a slow response to the demonstrations in late april . protesters had initially set up a small encampment earlier on thursday in an area known as the kerckhoff patio , but quickly abandoned it after officers wearing helmets and carrying batons moved in . the protesters then fled to an area by murphy hall , amassing about 300 people at one point , and then some eventually moved into dodd hall . in recent weeks , student activists have been calling on the university to divest from companies that they view as enabling israel ’ s war in gaza . their demonstration in april was one of the most high - profile campus protests this year . more than 200 protesters were arrested after a group of pro - israel counterprotesters attacked the encampment . none of the counterprotesters have been apprehended . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement