g7 summit advertisement supported by the group of 7 gathers major industrialized countries , but its leaders are politically weak and ukraine and gaza remain unsolved . bymark landlerandsteven erlanger reporting from bari , italy when prime minister giorgia meloni of italy convenes the leaders of the group of 7 countries on thursday at a luxury resort hotel overlooking the adriatic sea , she might be forgiven for thinking her guests are seeking a refuge . except forms . meloni herself , every one of the leaders is arriving at the meeting beleaguered , embattled or endangered — an ill - starred convergence that speaks to the political tremors rattling across the west . it also doesn ’ t bode well for the results of a gathering that already faced vexing challenges , ranging from russia ’ s war in ukraine to china ’ s global economic competition . britain ’ s prime minister , rishi sunak , is three weeks away from an election in which his conservative party is expected to beswept out of power . president emmanuel macron of france hascalled a snap parliamentary electionafter his party suffered heavy losses to the far right in european elections . chancellor olaf scholz of germany and his social democratic party werehumbled in those elections as well , while president biden isin a dogfightwith his predecessor , former president donald j . trump . even prime minister fumio kishida of japan faces rising unrest within his liberal democratic party and may lose his job this autumn . prime minister justin trudeau of canada , whofaces his own disenchanted publicafter more than eight years in office , spoke for his fellow leaders when he lamented the surge of populism in europe and the united states . “ we have seen around the world a rise of populist right - wing forces in just about every democracy ,” mr . trudeau said on monday . “ it is of concern to see political parties choosing to instrumentalize anger , fear , division , anxiety .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement