israel - hamaswar advertisement the vote was aimed at keeping the divisive issue in the hands of legislators instead of judges , who have repeatedly determined that an exemption should not stand . byephrat livni israel ’ s parliament on tuesday voted to revive a bill that would enable ultra - orthodox men to be drafted into the military , a divisive issue that has become especially contentious since the war in gaza began last october . the vote , which passed 63 - 57 , was a procedural step aimed at keeping the hot - button issue in the hands of legislators instead of judges , who have repeatedly determined thatthe exemption , dating to the founding of israel , should not stand . many secular israelis have long lamented the draft exemptions for the most religious members of society . the issue has taken new prominence since the hamas - led attack in israel on oct . 7 set off a war that has prompted repeated call - ups of reserve soldiers . the bill , which revives a proposal made in 2022 , would limit the exemption for young ultra - orthodox men enrolled in religious study , establish recruitment quotas for them and provide alternative service options , among other changes . some critics contend , however , that the proposal would not significantly increase military service among the ultra - orthodox , known in hebrew as haredim . the bill was advanced in may by prime minister benjamin netanyahu , in an apparent effort to deter israel ’ s supreme court from taking the lead on the matter . the justices are currently considering whether the government must immediately begin drafting the ultra - orthodox , following the expiration of a law last year that was temporarily extended and has expired again . the vote on tuesday was widely seen as intended to send a signal to the court that the knesset was addressing the issue . the court ordered the government to address it long ago , but years of legislative efforts have failed to produce meaningful change . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement