israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the annual parade focused this year on the hostages in gaza . thousands marched , and with many streets blocked off , there were few protesters . bychelsia rose marcius , maia colemananderin nolan thousands of supporters of israel marched along fifth avenue on sunday during a heavily policed israel day parade that took on a more somber tone this year as the war in gaza enters its eighth month . the normally jubilant event , which has been held annually since 1964 , had fewer spectators in midtown manhattan than usual because of intense security . the parade — expected to draw 40 , 000 participants , all of whom needed credentials to march — has been previously called “ celebrate israel .” this year , it was renamed “ israel day on 5th ” and focused on remembering the hostages seized by hamas on oct . 7 . the event was mostly peaceful and drew very few protesters . police barricades , chain - link fences and checkpoints limited access to the route . new york has had roughly 3 , 000 demonstrations related to the israel - hamas war since october , according to mayor eric adams , most of them pro - palestinian , and hundreds of protesters have been arrested . no palestinian flags were in evidence along the parade route on sunday . still , moments of tension erupted between participants and politicians . at the start of the parade , the arrival of elected officials , including gov . kathy hochul ; letitia james , the attorney general of new york ; and senator chuck schumer , the senate majority leader , drew jeers from the crowd . as mr . schumer began to speak , at least one person shouted “ you betrayed us ,” a reference to mr . schumer ’ ssharp criticism of the israeli governmentin a senate speech in march . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement