advertisement supported by edan on , an 18 - year - old , was charged with assault . the police said he beat pro - palestinian protesters with a wooden pole . bynicholas bogel - burroughs more than three weeks after counterprotesters attacked a pro - palestinian encampment at the university of california , los angeles , the university police have made the first arrest related to the attack : an 18 - year - old who officers said had beaten pro - palestinian protesters with a wooden pole . the u . c . l . a . police did not identify the man by name , but arrest records show that he is edan on . he is facing one charge of felony assault with a deadly weapon . the police said he inflicted serious injuries on at least one person . in videos of the april 30 attack on the encampment , a man in a light - colored hoodie and a white mask is seen swinging a pole at several protesters . in one photograph , there appears to be blood on the sleeve of his sweatshirt . mr . on ’ s mother told cnn that the man seen in those videos was her son , though she later told the network that he had denied being there . shetold cnnlast week that her son was a high school senior with plans to join the israeli military . mr . on was arrested on thursday morning at a business in beverly hills , the police said . jail records show that bail was set at $ 30 , 000 . mr . on ’ s mother and father declined to comment on friday . the u . c . l . a . police department has been under intense pressure to identify and charge counterprotesters involved in the april 30 attack , which the police allowed to continue for several hours without intervening . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement