hunter bidengun trial advertisement supported by in a wide - ranging interview with abc news , the president touched on hunter biden ’ s trial , donald trump ’ s felony conviction and the war in gaza . byzolan kanno - youngs reporting from washington follow our live coverage of theverdict in hunter biden ’ s gun trial . president biden said on thursday that he would not grant hunter biden a pardon if he was convicted in his felony gun trial , a rare comment from mr . biden about the legal troubles facing his son . when asked during aninterview with abc newswhether he would accept the outcome of thetrial of his son , who faces charges including lying on an application to obtain a gun in october 2018 , mr . biden said , “ yes .” in the wide - ranging interview , the president also defended his border policies and reiterated his support for a cease - fire proposal in the war in gaza . when the topic turned to former president donald j . trump and his recent felony conviction , mr . biden said his opponent needed to “ stop undermining the rule of law .” last week , a new york jury found mr . trump guilty of 34 counts of falsifying business records to cover up hush money paid to a porn actress , in an unlawful conspiracy to aid his 2016 presidential campaign . he has since repeated hiscriticism of the judge in the caseandsuggested he could seek to prosecute his political opponentsif elected again . at acampaign rally in arizona on thursday , mr . trump called his trial “ rigged ” and said the charges had been “ fabricated .” mr . biden took on a sharper edge when asked about his political opponent ’ s broadsides after a recent executive order allowing thesuspension of asylum at the u . s .- mexico border . the former president called the move “ weak and pathetic .” “ is he describing himself — weak and pathetic ?” mr . biden said in the interview , which took place on the sidelines of his visit to the beaches of normandy in france to observe the 80th anniversary of d - day . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement