israel - hamaswar advertisement under a u . s .- brokered agreement , egypt allowed trucks to pass through the israeli - controlled kerem shalom . byaaron boxermanandvivek shankar aid trucks from egypt entered the gaza strip on sunday under a new u . s .- brokered agreement to reopen a vital conduit for humanitarian relief , the israeli military and the egyptian red crescent said . egypt had blocked aid from entering the enclave via its territory since israel ’ s seizure of the rafah crossing — which provides access to southern gaza — in early may . the two sides have traded blame over that crossing ’ s closure , even as aid has piled up on the egyptian side . after u . s . pressure , egypt announced on friday that it had agreed to divert trucks through the israeli - controlled kerem shalom crossing , which is roughly two miles from the rafah crossing , as a temporary measure . some 126 trucks from egypt containing food , fuel and other necessities entered the gaza strip through kerem shalom on sunday , the israeli military said in a statement . the trucks were inspected by israeli officials , said ahmad ezzat , an egyptian red crescent official . the quantity of food , water and medicines reaching gazans has plummeted since the war began nearly eight months ago . as a result , the united nations and aid groups have been warning of widespread hunger in the enclave and urging israel to open more routes for aid to enter . but in recent weeks , aid shipments into gaza throughthe two main land conduitshave been interrupted . one of those crossings is kerem shalom , which sits at the intersection of gaza , israel and egypt . israel temporarily closed kerem shalom a few weeks ago after a hamas rocket attack there killed four of its soldiers . since then israel has allowedsome aid into gaza through kerem shalom , but its distribution has been a point of contention . israel says that aid agencies must distribute the aid . but the agencies say that the israeli military ’ s activity in southern gaza has made their job nearly impossible . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement