advertisement supported by barnard college is requiring students to strip decorations from their dorm doors in the wake of protests over the israel - hamas war . bysharon otterman dorm door decorations are emerging as the next battleground in the fight over academic freedom and free speech at barnard college . as at many schools , barnard students often use their dorm doors to display a bit of personality . a walk around the freshman dorms early this week found sorority pledge signs , lunar new year decorations and a pinned - up loose - leaf paper asking : “ who ’ s your celebrity crush ?” but students had also posted stickers and slogans supporting the palestinian cause and naming the war in gaza as a genocide . “ zionism is terrorism ,” one student ’ s door sticker said . concerned that some students might feel intimidated by such messages , the barnard administration has decided to enforce a ban on dorm door decorations altogether . their removal was set to begin on thursday , and all but “ official items placed by the college ” will be taken down , leslie grinage , the dean of the college , wrote in an email to students . “ while many decorations and fixtures on doors serve as a means of helpful communication amongst peers , we are also aware that some may have the unintended effect of isolating those who have different views and beliefs ,” she wrote . barnard has made aseries of movesto limit the spaces where students and faculty can express themselves publicly since the start of the israel - hamas war in october . the moves are crafted broadly , but they come as barnard and other campuses face controversy and litigation over pro - palestinian speech that some believe is antisemitic . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement