for the first time since the vietnam war , university demonstrations have led to a rethinking of who sets the terms for language in academia . a pro - palestinian protest on columbia university ’ s campus this spring . credit ... mark peterson / redux supported by byemily bazelonandcharles homans emily bazelon is a staff writer for the magazine who also teaches at yale law school . charles homans covers politics for the times . he visited the columbia campus repeatedly during the demonstrations , counter - demonstrations and police actions in april . early on the afternoon of nov . 10 , jameel jaffer , the director of the knight first amendment institute at columbia university , was on his way into a meeting in low library , the domed neoclassical building at the center of campus , when an administrator pulled him aside . the school , the administrator said , was about to announce the suspensions of the campus chapters of the organizations students for justice in palestine and jewish voice for peace , an allied anti - zionist organization — a move that alarmed jaffer given the fraught politics of the moment . the day after hamas ’ s brazen oct . 7 attack on military and civilian targets in israel , the s . j . p . and j . v . p . chapters co - signed an open letter declaring “ full solidarity with palestinian resistance .” the letter described the attacks as “ an unprecedented historic moment for the palestinians of gaza ” and a “ counteroffensive against their settler - colonial oppressor .” it would be tantamount to “ asking for quiet submission to systemic violence ” for anyone to call for peace now , after years of israeli violence and military campaigns against palestinians . the groups issued a list of demands to the university — divestment from companies doing business with the israeli government , the end of columbia ’ s affiliation with tel aviv university and a recognition of palestinian “ existence and humanity ” — and announced a demonstration on oct . 12 on the steps of low library . they signed off : “ see you thursday .” the oct . 12 demonstration appeared to be in violation of campus rules , which required student groups to give 10 days ’ notice for gatherings in public spaces , but columbia had not been enforcing such requirements amid the emotional responses to the hamas attacks and israel ’ s retaliatory bombing in the gaza strip . “ we got some pushback from the university ,” recalled cameron jones , an organizer of the j . v . p . chapter , “ but not insane pushback .” as the sit - ins , teach - ins and die - ins continued , however , that began to change . pro - israel groups held counterdemonstrations , and tensions built on columbia ’ s small , enclosed central campus . “ in the past , demonstrations were basically students protesting against the establishment , and that was , you know , unidirectional and fairly straightforward ,” the president of columbia , minouche shafik , said in late may , in her first interview since december . “ in this crisis ,” she went on , “ students are opposed to other students , faculty opposed to other faculty . and those internal dynamics and tensions have made this much more difficult than past episodes .” outside columbia ’ s library , several israeli students were physically attacked after they confronted another student tearing down posters of israelis held hostage by hamas . students wearing hijabs and kaffiyehs reported being called “ jew killers ” and terrorists . by oct . 25 , when s . j . p . and j . v . p . staged a walkout of college classes , “ our relationship with the administration was really crumbling ,” jones recalled . two days later , israel ’ s invasion of gaza began . on the night of nov . 8 , with another demonstration planned for the next day on the steps outside low , a faculty adviser told the organizers that they were out of compliance with school rules and asked them to postpone the event . theydid not , and the university suspended them . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement