israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by secretary of state antony j . blinken is in china this week as tensions have risen over trade , security , russia ’ s war on ukraine and the middle east crisis . byana swanson , david piersonandolivia wang ana swanson covers trade and the u . s .- china relationship and is accompanying mr . blinken on his trip . david pierson covers china ’ s foreign policy and its influence in the world . secretary of state antony j . blinken is meeting officials in china this week as disputes over wars , trade , technology and security are testing the two countries ’ efforts to stabilize the relationship . the united states is heading into an election year in which president biden will face intense pressure to confront china ’ s authoritarian government and offer new protections for american businesses and workers from low - priced chinese imports . china is courting foreign investment to help its sluggish economy . at the same time , its leader , xi jinping , has been bolstering national security and expanding china ’ s military footprint around taiwan and the south china sea in ways that have alarmed its neighbors . mr . biden and mr . xi have held talks to prevent their countries ’ disputes from spiraling into conflict , after relations sank to their lowest point in decades last year . but an array of challenges could make steadying the relationship difficult . the united states has been pushing back against china ’ s increasingly assertive claims over swaths of the south china sea and the self - governed island of taiwan by building security alliances in asia . that effort has promptedmore concerns in beijing that the united states is leading a campaign to encircle china and contain its rise . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement