advertisement supported by mondaire jones , a fellow black progressive who entered congress with mr . bowman after the 2020 election , is endorsing mr . bowman ’ s challenger , george latimer . bynicholas fandos roughly four years ago , mondaire jones and jamaal bowmanmade historytogether . young , left - leaning democrats , they won hard - fought primaries in neighboring districts to become the first black men ever to represent new york ’ s westchester county in congress . now , they find themselves deeply at odds over theisrael - hamas war , a break so sharp that mr . jones vowed on monday to help defeat mr . bowman in the democratic primary on june 25 and endorse his opponent , george latimer . it was the latest sign of how intensely the conflict in the middle east has come to divide democratic politics this election year . mr . latimer and mr . bowman have already spent months debating the conflict , and the race has been transformed by $ 10 million in outside spending by pro - israel interest groups on mr . latimer ’ s behalf . mr . jones said in an interview that he could not sit by while mr . bowman positioned himself as a leading critic of israel , saying that his former ally had sown “ pain and anxiety ” among jewish new yorkers and had torn “ at the fabric of our community and our civil rights coalition .” but mr . jones also may be considering his own political self - interest . afterlosing his house seatin 2022 , he isnow runningto unseat representative mike lawler , a republican , in a swing district just to the north . creating some distance from mr . bowman may help win over jewish voters , as well as other moderate voters . “ as someone who is among the most popular democrats in the hudson valley , it is my prerogative to play a dispositive role in ending this long , painful nightmare that we have been experiencing since oct . 7 ,” mr . jones said . he planned to formally make the endorsement at an event on tuesday . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement