israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the assessment , at odds with prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s assertion that the country is “ on the brink of victory ,” came as israel claimed control of a key buffer strip along egypt ’ s border . byaaron boxerman , gabby sobelman , erika solomonandthomas fuller israel ’ s national security adviser said wednesday that he expected military operations in gaza to continue through at least the end of the year , appearing to dismiss the idea that the war could come to an end after the military offensive against hamas in rafah . “ we expect another seven months of combat in order to shore up our achievement and realize what we define as the destruction of hamas and islamic jihad ’ s military and governing capabilities ,” tzachi hanegbi , the national security adviser , said in a radio interview with kan , the israeli public broadcaster . the israeli military also said wednesday that it had seized “ operational control ” over abuffer stripalong the southern edge of gaza to prevent cross - border smuggling with egypt that would allow hamas and other palestinian militant groups to rearm . prime minister benjamin netanyahu has said repeatedly that controlling the corridor is critical for israeli security in postwar gaza . rear adm . daniel hagari , the israeli military spokesman , said the zone was “ hamas ’ s oxygen tube ” and had been used by the palestinian armed group for “ smuggling munitions into gazan territory on a regular basis .” he said that hamas had also built tunnels near the egyptian border , calculating that israel would not dare strike so close to egyptian territory . in recent months , israeli defense officials have told the public to expect a protracted campaign in gaza , although one that would progress in phases toward lower - intensity fighting . still , mr . hanegbi ’ s assessment of at least another seven months of military operations appeared to be at odds with earlier projections by mr . netanyahu , who said in april that the country was “ on the brink of victory ” in its war against hamas . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement