israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the international court of justice has no means to enforce its order in the gazan city , but the ruling added pressure on the government of prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel . bygaya gupta , aaron boxermanandyonette joseph the international court of justice on friday ordered israel to “ immediately ” halt its military offensive in the city of rafah in southern gaza , dealing another blow to the country as it faces increasinginternational isolationand a drumbeat of criticism over its conduct in the war . the court has few effective means of enforcing its order , and it stopped short of ordering a cease - fire in gaza , with some of the court ’ s judges arguing that israel could still conduct some military operations in rafah under the terms of their decision . but the order added more pressure on the government of prime minister benjamin netanyahu , who has faced domestic and external calls to reach a cease - fire deal with hamas that would lead to the release of hostages held in gaza . “ the court considers that , in conformity with obligations under the genocide convention , israel must immediately halt its military offensive , and any other action in the rafah governorate , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza conditions of life that could bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part ,” the court ’ s president , nawaf salam , said in readingthe 13 - 2 ruling . the court , based at the hague , also specified the need for open land crossings , in particular the rafah crossing , as part of its request for “ the unhindered provision ” of humanitarian assistance and services . israel has controlled the rafah crossing for more than two weeks , and very few aid trucks have entered the enclave since , according to united nations data . the israeli government said in a statement that its military “ has not and will not ” take actions that would lead to the partial or complete destruction of the palestinian population of rafah . in effect , it said that the court ’ s decision has no bearing on israel ’ s offensive because the prohibited acts are not occurring . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement