israel - hamaswar advertisement a video of munitions debris filmed at the school complex in central gaza where thousands of palestinians were sheltering showed remnants of a gbu - 39 , a bomb that is designed and manufactured by boeing . bychristiaan triebertandneil collier at least one bomb used in the israeli strike that killed dozens of people , including women and children , in a united nations school building on thursday appeared to have been made in the united states , according to a weapons expert and videos reviewed by the new york times . the school , located in nuseirat , in central gaza , was beingused as a shelter for thousands of displaced palestinians . the israeli military said it had targeted classrooms that were occupied by palestinian militants , though it did not provide evidence for this claim . a video of munitions debris , filmedby the palestinian journalist emad abu shawiesh , shows remnants of a gbu - 39 bomb , which is designed and manufactured by boeing . the use of this weapon in the strike wasfirst reported by cnn . the footage was uploaded to instagram shortly after 4 a . m . in gaza on thursday , about two and a half hours after the strike wasreportedon telegram , a messaging app . the times , using details seen in videos , confirmed the weapon debris was filmed at the u . n . school . trevor ball , a former u . s . army explosive ordnance disposal technician , identifiedthe part of the weapon seen in the footage as the nose of a gbu - 39 . “ this distinct nose is unique to the gbu - 39 munition series , and , due to its solid construction , it can survive the blast intact ,” he said . the holes visible across several floors of the u . n . compound also suggest the use of a smaller precision - guided munition like the gbu - 39 , mr . ball added . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement