israel - hamaswar advertisement transcript in the occupied west bank , palestinians live in the shadow of the ongoing war in gaza . for them , this has meant increased raids and arrests , tightening security restrictions , settler violence and economic turmoil . we spent time with two palestinians whose lives and livelihoods are being reshaped by the war and who worry that some of these changes may be long lasting . 29 - year - old taxi driver and tour guide laith al - muti now waits all day here at one of the israeli - controlled checkpoints into bethlehem . but these days , barely any visitors come through . thirteen miles away in the tel rumeida area of hebron , wijdan ziadeh ’ s life is also at a standstill . the site of an israeli settlement , palestinians in the area say their movement , limited before the war , has felt even more restricted since oct . 7 . control over security in hebron is divided into two zones . h1 is managed by the palestinian authority and h2 , where ziadeh lives , is managed by the israeli military . the israeli military told the times that security measures have increased in the west bank as part of a response to terrorist operatives , including hamas , and that their forces are in tel rumeida to help ensure the safety of all residents . but ziadeh lives in fear of scenes of settler aggression like this one captured by a nearby palestinian resident . ziadeh says since the war , her settler neighbors have become even more aggressive towards her and her two sons . throughout the west bank , incidents of settler violence against palestinians jumped in the aftermath of oct . 7 , according to the u . n ., who have recorded nearly 950 attacks as of june 2024 . palestinians in the area say that the israeli military are there to protect the settlers and that settler violence against palestinians largely goes unpunished , a decades - long pattern detailed in a recent times investigation . back in bethlehem , laith also fears for the future . sites he used to frequent with tourists , like the church of the nativity , now sit empty . al - muti and ziadeh say they don ’ t know what ’ s next for them or for others in the west bank . bysarah kerr as the war in gaza enters its eighth month , palestinians living under israeli occupation in the west bank continue to faceonerous restrictions , economic difficulties and an increased military presence — changes that some worry may become the new normal . throughout the west bank , daily life — restricted before oct . 7 — has been further complicated by myriad factors . these include regular raids and arrests by israeli forces , emboldened settlers and regulations that have hampered the economy , such as the cancellation of permits to work in israel and an increase in internal checkpoints and roadblocks , complicating movement throughout the territory . the israeli military said there had been a “ significant increase ” in terrorist attacks in the west bank since the beginning of the war and told the new york times that arrests of suspected “ terrorist operatives ,” as well as the strategic placement of security forces , were necessary “ to improve the safety of all residents of the sector .” we spent time with two palestinians in the west bank to learn how they have been affected by these changes . in bethlehem , a city whose economy islargely dependent on tourism , few are arriving to visit sites like the church of the nativity , the supposed birthplace of jesus . laith al - muti , 29 , a local tour guide and taxi driver , spends his days waiting at the main checkpoint from jerusalem into bethlehem , hoping to attract local fares . al - muti and other drivers said they were making a fraction of what they earned before the war . “ i don ’ t know for how long people will have energy ,” said al - muti . “ i might be making 20 or 40 shekels , ( roughly $ 5 -$ 11 ) working in my taxi , but some people haven ’ t earned one shekel in seven months .” thirteen miles away in the tel rumeida area of hebron , widjan ziadeh , 56 , a widow , and her sons live in fear . hebron is divided into two zones : h1 , where security is controlled by the palestinian authority , and h2 , where security is controlled by the israeli military . tel rumeida , located in h2 , is surrounded by israeli - run checkpoints . since the war , palestinians in the area said they had been subject to increased restrictions and difficulties . tel rumeida , the site of an israeli settlement , has some who are violent and aggressive , according to palestinians in the area , and tensions have run high for decades . ziadeh said her son faris , 20 , had nearly lost all vision in one eye following a settler attack in 2022 , but the family never filed a criminal complaint to the israeli authorities because oflimited expectations of justice . for now , ziadeh is determined to stay and keep her house from being taken over by settlers . “ we won ’ t leave . this is our land and we ’ ll stay here ,” she said . “ we ’ ll live and die in suffering .” sarah kerris a times senior video journalist covering news and investigations . more about sarah kerr advertisement