israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the moves , while largely symbolic , were welcomed by palestinians and denounced by prime minister benjamin netanyahu , who called them “ a prize for terrorism .” byaaron boxerman , emma bubolaandmichael levenson aaron boxerman reported from jerusalem , emma bubola from rome and michael levenson from new york spain , norway and ireland said on wednesday that they would recognize an independent palestinian state , delivering a diplomatic blow to israel that showed the country ’ s growing isolation on the world stage more than seven months into its devastating military offensive in the gaza strip . in closely coordinated announcements , the leaders of the three countries said that palestinian independence cannot wait for a negotiated peace deal with israel ’ s right - wing government , which largely opposes a two - state solution , has been expanding settlements in the israeli - occupied west bank and is continuing to bombard gaza without either toppling hamas or bringing home all its hostages . prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel has also frustrated world leaders — and two members of his war cabinet — with his refusal to establish a postwar plan to govern gaza , where the health authorities say that more than 35 , 000 people have been killed . simon harris , the irish prime minister , linked his government ’ s decision to ireland ’ s quest for independence from britain . “ from our own history , we know what it means : recognition is an act of powerful political and symbolic value ,” he said at a news briefing . the announcements by all three countries came just days after the international criminal court ’ s chief prosecutorrequested arrest warrantsfor mr . netanyahu and israel ’ s defense minister , yoav gallant , on suspicion of war crimes . he also sought warrants for three top leaders of hamas . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement