israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the timing of the remarks seemed to rebuff the president ’ s hopes for a speedy end to the war . but some analysts said the prime minister was aiming at domestic supporters , not the white house . byaaron boxerman a day after president biden called on israel and hamas to reach a truce , declaring that it was “ time for this war to end ,” prime minister benjamin netanyahu on saturday reiterated that israel would not agree to a permanent cease - fire in gaza as long as hamas still retains governing and military power . in his statement , mr . netanyahu did not explicitly endorse or reject a proposed cease - fire plan that mr . biden had laid out in an unusually detailed address on friday . two israeli officials confirmed that mr . biden ’ s proposal matched an israeli cease - fire proposal that had been greenlit by israel ’ s war cabinet . the officials spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive negotiations . but the timing of mr . netanyahu ’ s remarks , coming first thing the next morning , seemed to put the brakes on mr . biden ’ s hopes for a speedy resolution to the war , which has claimed the lives of more than 36 , 000 palestinians , according to the gaza health ministry . “ israel ’ s conditions for ending the war have not changed : the destruction of hamas ’ s military and governing capabilities , the freeing of all hostages and ensuring that gaza no longer poses a threat to israel ,” mr . netanyahu ’ s office said in the statement released on saturday morning . biden administration officials and some israeli analysts said they believed that israel still supported the proposal mr . biden described on friday , and that mr . netanyahu ’ s statement on saturday was more tailored to his domestic audience and meant to manage his far - right cabinet members , rather than to push back against the white house . mr . biden is eager for the war to end , with the american presidential election just five months away . but mr . netanyahu ’ s domestic political worries could prove paramount . on saturday night , two of mr . netanyahu ’ s far - right coalition partners — bezalel smotrich and itamar ben - gvir — threatened to quit his government should he move forward with the proposal . mr . ben - gvir labeled the terms of the agreement a “ total defeat ” and a “ victory for terrorism .” if both of their parties left his coalition , it could mark the end of mr . netanyahu ’ s government . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement