israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by “ i saw people falling to the ground after being shot ,” said one witness , “ and others simply took the food items that were with them and continued running for their lives .” byraja abdulrahim , matthew mpoke bigg , adam rasgonandmichael levenson they went out by the thousands , camping overnight along a coastal road in the cold gaza night , huddled together by small fires , waiting for supplies to come so they could feed their families . what they encountered was death and injury by the hundreds , according to witnesses and a doctor who treated the wounded , as israeli forces opened fire toward desperate palestinians who surged forward when aid trucks finally arrived before dawn on thursday . “ i saw things i never , ever thought i would see ,” said mohammed al - sholi , who had camped out overnight for a chance to get food for his family . “ i saw people falling to the ground after being shot , and others simply took the food items that were with them and continued running for their lives .” amid the chaos and bloodshed , some people were run over by the aid trucks , he said . on friday , president biden said the united states would begin airdropping aid to gaza to help relieve the suffering there , as european leaders condemned israel for the deaths of scores of hungry palestinians who were killed as they surrounded the aid convoy . the gazan health authorities have said that israeli troops killed more than 100 people and wounded 700 others in a “ massacre ” as the convoy rolled along a dark road , a version of events that israel disputed . an israeli military spokesman , rear adm . daniel hagari , said on thursday that israeli soldiers had been trying to secure the convoy and fired “ when the mob moved in a manner that endangered them .” but he said the soldiers had not fired on people seeking aid . the military has said that most of the people died in a stampede and that some were run over by the trucks in gaza city . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement