israel - hamaswar advertisement a small number of trucks carrying desperately needed food headed for gaza city , but at least some were swarmed and looted by people along the way . byaaron boxermanandadam rasgon reporting from jerusalem only a trickle of aid managed on monday to reach the desperately hungry people of the northern gaza strip , where the united nations has warned that hundreds of thousands of palestinians face a growing threat of famine after nearly five months of fighting and blockade . fifteen trucks were dispatched overnight to northern gaza as part of a relief effort involving palestinian businessmen , according to cogat , the israeli military body that regulates aid to the palestinians . but at least five of those were looted along the way , according to an israeli official who was not authorized to comment publicly , and so spoke on condition of anonymity . it was unclear exactly how many of the trucks reached their intended destination , gaza city ’ s zeitoun neighborhood . izzat aqel , a palestinian businessman involved in the operation , said he aimed to send an additional 30 trucks with food relief to northern gaza on monday night . aid officials have warned that palestinians in gaza could be on the brink of famine unless relief is substantially stepped up , with over 500 , 000 people already facing a dire lack of food . one in six children under the age of 2 in gaza is acutely malnourished , according to the united nations . tedros adhanom ghebreyesus , the director general of the world health organization , said visits to hospitals in the north by agency officials — the first since early october — found severe levels of malnutrition and “ children dying of starvation .” the dire conditions have prompted crowds of desperate people to swarm aid trucks and contributed to a bloody scene last week , when israeli troops opened fire on palestinians who had gathered en masse around a convoy of trucks that had entered northern gaza . over 100 palestinians were killed , many by gunfire , according to palestinian health officials . the israeli military said the troops had fired on members of the crowd who approached them in a threatening manner and attributed most of the deaths to a stampede around the convoy . in the wake of the bloodshed at the convoy , israel has faced even greater international pressure to facilitate more aid for gazans , particularly in the north . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement