advertisement supported by a tentative new contract at an ohio battery maker on monday was big for president biden ’ s e . v . transition , but for some , the victory was upstaged by the u . a . w .’ s activism on college campuses . byjonathan weisman the united automobile workers has scored a remarkable string of victories — most recently , a landmark contract on monday for electric vehicle battery workers — as its new leadership strives to restore the union ’ s image as the voice of an iconic segment of the american working class . but competing for headlines is a part of the union that represents tens of thousands of university workers , which at the moment is singularly focused on a mission far from building cars and trucks : ending israel ’ s war in gaza . u . a . w . leaders insist that they can smooth out the dissonance between the dual thrusts of u . a . w . activism — one on college campuses , the other on red - state assembly lines . but it will not be easy . the u . a . w . signs that are crowding pro - palestinian encampments on campuses , furnished by the union ’ s international headquarters in detroit , have alone struck sour notes among some union members uncomfortable with such outward signs of politics on such a fraught topic . “ it ’ s so bad for the union ,” said isaac altman , a u . a . w . member and staff lawyer in the family court bureau of the legal aid society of nassau county , n . y ., who has clashed with his local over a pro - palestine resolution he called “ slightly more radical than hezbollah .” ( the resolution called for an immediate cease - fire and an end to “ the occupation and blockade of palestinian land , sea and air by israeli military forces .”) the competition for attention may only get worse . on monday , union negotiators reached a tentative agreement with general motors that could prove to be a landmark in the auto industry ’ s transition to electric vehicles . it would give huge wage increases and far more safety protections toemployees at an e . v . battery plant in lordstown , ohio , solid evidence that president biden ’ s efforts to combat climate change could fulfill his promise that a green future will not leave workers behind . “ it ’ s a huge deal ,” said dave green , the regional director of the u . a . w . in ohio and indiana . “ we ’ ve been trying to have a just transition and stop this race to the bottom for wages for e . v . workers . this contract is very exciting .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement