israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the treasury secretary said allies from the group of 7 nations must work to stabilize the west bank economy and increase gaza aid . byalan rappeport alan rappeport reported from stresa , italy , where he is covering the group of 7 finance ministers meeting . treasury secretary janet l . yellen warned israel on thursday againstcutting off tiesbetween palestinian and israeli banks , arguing that such a move would further destabilize the economy of the west bank when palestinians were already facing dire economic conditions . ms . yellen ’ s comments came in the wake of israel ’ s decision on wednesday to withhold tax revenue from the palestinian authority in retaliation for three european countries ’ unilaterally agreeing to recognize a palestinian state . ms . yellen and other top economic officials from the group of 7 nations are expected to discuss the matter and the humanitarian situation in gaza during their summit in stresa , italy , which begins on thursday . “ i ’ m particularly concerned by israel ’ s threats to take action that would lead to palestinian banks ’ being cut off from their israeli correspondent banks ,” ms . yellen said during remarks ahead of a news conference . ms . yellen added that the banking channels were critical for processing transactions that allow $ 8 billion a year of imports of food , fuel and electricity from israel and $ 2 billion of palestinian exports . the war in gaza is one of several geopolitical crises that are weighing on the global economy . the economic policymakers are also planning to discuss russia ’ s war in ukraine and continue deliberations over how to use more than $ 300 billion of frozen russian central bank assets to provide ukraine with additional aid . officials from the group of 7 will also be discussing ways to tighten sanctions on russia and how to prevent china from providing the country with military support . ms . yellen said on thursday that the plight of the palestinians would be a topic of discussion with her counterparts and that a move to cut palestinians off from the international financial system could fuel a “ humanitarian crisis .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement