israel - hamaswar advertisement hospitals , clinics and kitchens are shutting down , and transporting the wounded is a challenge on roads choked with debris and fleeing refugees . byerika solomon israel ’ s offensive in the southern city of rafah has strained medical and humanitarian services to the breaking point , aid workers say , with only one hospital still functioning and several aid operations forced to decamp to other parts of the gaza strip . the health care crisis in the city has been compounded by the closure of emergency clinics and other services amid continued clashes and strikes that have killed dozens of civilians . on sunday , a strike that israel said was aimed at a hamas compound set ablaze a camp for the displaced in rafah , killing 45 people , according to the gazan health ministry . another strike on tuesday in al - mawasi , on the outskirts of rafah , killed 21 people and injured dozens , the ministry said . among the aid operations that have shuttered this week are a field hospital run by the palestinian red crescent , a clinic supported by doctors without borders and kitchens run byworld central kitchen . “ as israeli attacks intensify on rafah , the unpredictable trickle of aid into gaza has created a mirage of improved access , while the humanitarian response is in reality on the verge of collapse ,” 19 aid groups said in ajoint statementon tuesday . some of the operations that were forced to move were in al - mawasi , where many civilians and aid workers went because israel designated part of the area as a humanitarian safe zone . israel ’ s military said after the strike on tuesday that it had not fired on that zone . videos verified by the new york times indicate that the strike hit near , but not inside , the zone . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement