israel - hamaswar advertisement the united states among a handful of holdouts on the vote , which was widely seen as a rebuke of the americans and israel . byerica l . green reporting from washington a white house spokesman on friday defended the united states ’ decision to opposea u . n . resolution declaring support for palestinian statehood , saying that such a measure should be negotiated in the middle east . the united states was among a handful of holdouts as the united nations general assembly overwhelmingly adopted a resolution declaring that palestinians qualify for full membership at the united nations . the vote was widely seen as a rebuke of israel and the united states as global outrage mounts over the israel - hamas war . john f . kirby , a white house national security spokesman , said president biden remained “ fully and firmly committed ” to a palestinian state , but the u . n . resolution was not the way to establish it . “ we continue to believe in the power and promise of a two - state solution , and an independent state for the palestinian people ,” mr . kirby told reporters . “ we also believe that the best way to do that is through direct negotiations with the parties and not through a vote of the u . n . of this kind .” friday ’ s vote comes as the ties between the united states and israel , its closest ally in the middle east , are tested over the war in gaza . more than 34 , 000 people have died in gaza , including both combatants and civilians , and the director of the world food program has said that parts of the gaza strip are experiencing a “ full - blown famine .” the united states is thebiggest supplier of weaponsto israel , and mr . biden is hoping to use that leverage to get prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel to forgo a long - threatened invasion of rafah , the southern gaza city where more than one million palestinians have taken refuge . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement