israel - hamaswar in safed , a center of kabbalah , ordinary citizens shocked by the oct . 7 attacks are carrying military - grade weapons . prayers at safed old jewish cemetery this month . credit ... supported by bydamien cave photographs byamit elkayam reporting from safed , an epicenter of jewish mysticism . eyal ben - ari tugged at the heavy assault rifle hanging over his shoulder as he tiptoed out of his pink house at sunrise , hoping not to wake his wife or six children . walking to synagogue in safed , a hill town above the sea of galilee known for centuries as a center of kabbalah , or ancient jewish mysticism , he said he still didn ’ t feel great about the gun . sleeping with the rifle under his pillow , he worried about it being stolen . after his 13 - year - old son came home with a toy replica , mr . ben - ari considered returning the real thing , doubting his decision to join the newly formed civilian militia that had given him the weapon . “ i feel like it ’ s very — artificial ,” he said , struggling to find the right word in english , looking down at the gun . “ it ’ s not human . it ’ s not life .” at the synagogue , men with graying beards and black suits — all fellow members of the chabad movement , an ultra - orthodox sect of judaism — slapped mr . ben - ari on the back . they were happy to see him . happy to see his gun . it was the only one there , but far from unique . in this small city near the lebanon border , where hezbollah ’ s rockets have often rained down in recent months , israel ’ s deep sense of vulnerability has led to a surge of citizens arming themselves . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement