israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by some said the decision to seek arrest warrants for both israeli and hamas leaders on war crimes charges seemed to equate victim with perpetrator . byhiba yazbek , ameera haroudaandiyad abuheweila palestinians in gaza expressed mixed feelings after the chief prosecutor at the world ’ s top criminal court said he wasseeking arrest warrantsfor leaders of both israel and hamas on war crimes charges , a move that many said equated victim with perpetrator . “ we deplore , denounce and are surprised by the decision of the international criminal court which places the accused , the victim , and the executioner in one cage ,” said zahir essam , a 55 - year - old living in gaza city . karim khan , the chief prosecutor of the international criminal court , announced on monday his decision to apply for arrest warrants for yahya sinwar , hamas ’ s leader in gaza ; muhammad deif , hamas ’ s military chief ; and ismail haniyeh , the movement ’ s qatar - based top political official . he also said he would seek warrants for prime minister benjamin netanyahu and defense minister yoav gallant of israel . the announcement in effect treated israeli officials and hamas leaders in the same way , despite what mr . essam sees as a power imbalance between the two sides in the conflict in gaza , which began when hamas led an attack on israel on oct . 7 . that attack killed about 1 , 200 people , and about 240 others were taken hostage , israeli officials say . israel ’ s retaliatory war in gaza has killed more than 35 , 000 palestinians , according to gazan health authorities , though their figures do not distinguish between civilians and combatants . many palestinians view the oct . 7 attack as a justified response to israeli violations during the decades - long israeli occupation of palestinian territories . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement