israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis the iranian attack on israeli territory made the middle east ’ s new reality undeniable : clashes are getting harder and harder to contain . byalissa j . rubinandvivian nereim arab countries , from the united arab emirates and oman to jordan and egypt , have tried for months to tamp down the conflict between israel and hamas , especially after it widened to include armed groups backed by iran and embedded deep within the arab world . some of them , like the houthis , threaten arab governments as well . but the iranian drone and missile attack on israel over the weekend , which put the entire region on alert , made the new reality unavoidable : unlike past israeli - palestinian conflicts , and even those involving israel and lebanon or syria , this one keeps expanding . “ part of why these wars were contained was that they were not a direct confrontation between israel and iran ,” said randa slim , a senior fellow at the washington - based middle east institute . “ but now we are entering this era where a direct confrontation between israel and iran — that could drag the region into the conflict and that could drag the u . s . in — now that prospect of a regional war is going to be on the table all the time .” for the moment , the only countervailing force is the desire of both the united states and its longtime foe iran to avoid a widening of the conflict , said joost hiltermann , the international crisis group ' s program director for the middle east and north africa . “ i am heartened by the fact that the only ones who want a war are israel and hamas ,” he said . “ the iranians are still talking to the americans ,” he said , referring to messages sent in recent days between the two by intermediaries including switzerland and oman . the iranian message , said mr . hiltermann , made clear they were looking to demonstrate their power , not expand the war . “ they said , ‘ there is going to be an attack , but we are going to keep it limited .’” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement