israel - hamaswar advertisement officials had confiscated camera equipment from the news agency as a part of a feud with the pan - arab broadcaster , but the decision was reversed after the biden administration privately expressed concerns . byadam rasgon reporting from jerusalem israel ’ s communications ministry confiscated camera equipment from the associated press on tuesday afternoon , claiming the agency had violated a new broadcasting law by providing images of northern gaza to al jazeera . but hours later , israel ’ s communications minister , shlomo karhi , reversed the decision and ordered the equipment be returned to the a . p . it was not clear when the equipment would be given back to the news agency . the reversal came after the biden administration expressed major concerns to the israeli government and demanded the equipment be returned , according to an israeli official , who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic communications . the seizure appeared to be an escalation in israel ’ s efforts to punish al jazeera , the pan - arab broadcaster that the israeli government voted toshut down two weeks ago . it raised questions about how far the israeli authorities would go to cut off the qatari - funded channel , which has provided extensive coverage of israel ’ s military offensive in gaza . lauren easton , the a . p .’ s vice president of corporate communications , had denounced the israeli government ’ s action , calling it “ an abusive use ” of a new law that provides the authorities with tools to crack down on foreign news organizations . in a statement on tuesday afternoon , the communications ministry said inspectors had gone to a location in southern israel used by the a . p . to broadcast live footage of the border with northern gaza , which is several miles away . the ministry claimed that the feed was illegally being carried by al jazeera and asserted that it was showing the activities of israeli soldiers and threatening their lives . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement