israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by despite fierce criticism , israel insists it must take control of rafah and the border with egypt to prevent future arms smuggling . bysteven erlanger , isabel kershnerandnatan odenheimer reporting from jerusalem despite an international court order to stop its assault on rafah , israel says it will continue its operation , trying to walk a line between not angering its american allies too much while trying to achieve strategic aims that it considers too important to abandon . for now , after many weeks of admonitions from the white house , both the israelis and the americans are characterizing this as a “ limited operation ,” allowing the israelis to proceed , though more slowly and cautiously than they had in other parts of gaza . but as the fighting pushes masses of panicked civilians toward areas near the sea with inadequate housing or medical aid , and the closing of the rafah border crossing dims hope for speedy delivery of humanitarian aid , israel ’ s critics abroad condemn the toll on civilians and are unconvinced by what the israelis have called restraint . on friday , the international court of justiceordered israel to immediately halt its offensive in rafah , saying it endangered the civilian population there , but did not call for a complete cease - fire . israel says it will not halt its military operation . for israel , taking rafah and the border would effectively complete the reconquest of gaza and could mean a move to a different phase of lower - intensity raids . rafah has in and under it the last four relatively organized hamas battalions , a major tunnel infrastructure and rocket launchers , the israelis say . more important , israel wants to try to seal the border with egypt to reduce the smuggling of weapons for the future . “ the airstrikes are continuous and intense , and the smell of smoke doesn ’ t leave the air ,” said mohammad al - masri , 31 , an accountant who has been sheltering in a tent in rafah for months . “ at night , they advance a few meters at a time , and the people flee immediately .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement