advertisement supported by mainstream democratic lawmakers want the president to speak out more forcefully for the policies that his administration has embraced , including a cease - fire . byjonathan weisman follow live updates onbiden ’ s state of the union address . mainstream democrats , watching the politics around israel ’ s war in gaza shift against them , are pressing president biden to become far more outspoken in his criticism of prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s right - wing government and far more upfront in his demands for a long - term solution to the conflict that includes a palestinian state . at the outset of the war , with memories fresh from hamas ’ s terrorist attack on israel that took around 1 , 200 lives , jewish democrats who had grown restivemore than a year ago over mr . netanyahu ’ s governance largely rallied aroundmr . biden as he sided firmlywith israel . but as the death toll in gaza rises inexorably , many are pleading with the president not so much to change policies but to become the voice of his administration ’ s own demands for a ramadan cease - fire , more humanitarian aid , more restraint of jewish settler violence and a long - term peace that includes a palestinian state . “ we are hoping that a strategy for peace and an end to this nightmare will be laid out at the state of the union ,” representative jamie raskin of maryland , a prominent jewish democrat , said on wednesday . “ nobody can question biden ’ s commitment to the security of israel , and nobody can question his commitment over the course of his career to human rights and international law . now is the time when the world needs to see american leadership for peace .” mr . raskin , returning to earlier criticism of mr . netanyahu ’ s governing coalition , the most right - wing in israel ’ s history , added , “ democrats feel we don ’ t take orders from right - wing politicians in america , and we shouldn ’ t be taking orders from right - wing politicians in another country .” more than a dozen jewish democrats in the house spearheadeda critical letter late last monthdemanding mr . biden “ redouble ” his efforts to achieve a cease - fire that facilitates more humanitarian aid to starving gazans . many of the same lawmakers on wednesday warned against an israeli strike on the city of rafah , along the gaza - egypt border , where hundreds of thousands of displaced civilians have sheltered . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement