israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by palestinians have long gathered and cooked khobeza , a spinach - like wild plant that sprouts after rains . now , it has become a lifeline . byben hubbardandbilal shbair ben hubbard reported from istanbul , and bilal shbair from deir al balah , gaza . as theisraeli military campaignto destroy hamas pummeled his neighborhood in northern gaza , reducing buildings to rubble and forcing residents to flee , the palestinian laborer realized that he was running out of food . the shops had closed , the markets had emptied and fighting prevented supplies from reaching them . so he and his remaining neighbors gathered a plant known as khobeza that grew near their homes and cooked it to sustain themselves , he said . “ it supported us more than everyone else in the world ,” the laborer , amin abed , 35 , said recently by phone from gaza . “ people survived the darkest chapters of the war on khobeza alone .” for many generations , the people of the holy land have foraged for khobeza , a hearty green with a taste and texture somewhere between spinach and kale that sprouts in knee - high thickets along roadsides and empty patches of dirt after the first winter rains . cooks sauté it in olive oil , season it with onions or boil it into soup to make tasty , low - cost meals . now , this green , a variety of mallow , is making up an outsize portion of many gazans ’ diets by providing an inexpensive way to blunt hunger . at a time when most other food islargely unavailableor prohibitively expensive , gazans can harvest khobeza themselves and cook it by itself , or with a few other ingredients . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement