advertisement supported by the leader of collegiate school in manhattan stepped down after an internal report found “ problems of religious and cultural bias .” bykatherine rosman the leader of one of new york ’ s most elite schools has stepped down after a damning internal audit found “ disquieting problems of religious and cultural bias ” at the school . david lourie , who became the leader of the all - boys collegiate school in manhattan justfour years ago , announced on monday that he and the board had agreed he would leave his post as head of school . “ after four years filled with shared successes alongside challenges that required difficult and at times divisive decisions , we agreed that a new head of school is what is best for the boys and the school community ,” mr . lourie said in an email to the school community . the collegiate report , issued in may and reviewed by the new york times , was commissioned by the school to investigate parents ’ concerns about antisemitism and islamophobia . nearly two weeks later , a gender discrimination lawsuit was filed against collegiate and mr . lourie by one of the school ’ s deans , who claimed that mr . lourie had referred to the report as “ a joke ” and a “ power play by jewish families .” mr . lourie andjonathan youngwood , the president of the school ’ s board of trustees , did not immediately respond to requests for comment . collegiate is among numerous private schools across new york city that have experienced intense disagreement over how administrators and faculty members have addressed the israel - hamas war . private - school parents , teachers , administrators and students have been discussing — and in some cases , arguing over — the appropriate ways for schools to address issues related to the war both in the classroom and in broader academic and community discourse . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement