israel - hamaswar advertisement subscriber - onlynewsletter what to know about karim khan ’ s decision to seek arrest warrants for three hamas leaders as well as israel ’ s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , and defense minister , yoav gallant . byamanda taub reporting from london the decision of karim khan , the international criminal court ’ s chief prosecutor , topublicly seek arrest warrantsfor the leaders of hamas and israel this week will be one of the most significant and contentious of his career . khanaccusedthree hamas leaders of war crimes and crimes against humanity relating to the oct . 7 attack on israel andhostage taking . he also accused israel ’ s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , and its defense minister , yoav gallant , of war crimes and crimes against humanity during israel ’ s military operation in gaza , including thestarvationof civilians . now a three - judge panel will consider whether to issue the warrants . some countries welcomed the news as a sign that all individuals , regardless of their state or status , are equal before the law , while others — including the united states , israel ’ s most important ally — denounced the charges and accused khan of false equivalence in pursuing warrants for hamas and israeli leaders at the same time . khan didn ’ t have to announce the warrant applications publicly . he could have waited until they were granted , as with the warrant for president vladimir v . putin of russia last year — a process that can take weeks or months . so why did he go public now and with such fanfare — issuing not only anews release , but also social media videos and aprerecorded interviewwith cnn ? the answer lies partly in the extraordinarily polarizing nature of this conflict , in which any legal intervention would be subject to deep scrutiny . it ’ s also about what the prosecutor ’ s office hopes to achieve as military action continues in gaza , famine looms and hostages remain in captivity . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement