israel - hamaswar advertisement the annual march celebrating israel ’ s 1967 takeover of the mostly palestinian east jerusalem has long been a flashpoint . byaaron boxerman reporting from jerusalem tens of thousands of jewish israelis joined an annual nationalist march on wednesday through the heart of jerusalem to celebrate israel ’ s 1967 capture of the city ’ s eastern half , with some chanting extremist slogans calling for violence against arabs . the rally , known as the dance of the flags or the flag march , has long been a flashpoint for tensions between israelis and palestinians , but security forces were especially worried the event could spark violence this year because of the eight - month - long war between israel and hamas , and a steep rise in violence on the west bank . the march winds through jerusalem ’ s old city toward the western wall , one of judaism ’ s holiest sites . chanting , dancing and waving blue - and - white israeli flags , the marchers made their way through the old city ’ s damascus gate into largely palestinian areas of jerusalem ’ s old city . the marchers banged on the shutters of shops closed by palestinian owners who feared attacks and chanted slogans that included “ may your village burn down ” and a biblical verse tweaked to call for “ revenge on palestine .” the israeli police said they arrested 13 people “ involved in various violent incidents ” in the old city . some of the israelis attending the march also hurled bottles and jeered at journalists from arabic news outlets , who were watching the area from a designated platform . officers later moved in after the bottle - throwing continued , detaining five more people , the police said . when asked about the violence against journalists , matthew miller , a spokesman for the u . s . state department , said : “ attacks of that nature should be prevented when possible . when they can ’ t be prevented they should be fully prosecuted , people should be held accountable under the law .” the demonstrators included many younger jewish israelis , wearing clothing emblazoned with the slogans of the religious right ’ s high schools and military academies . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement