advertisement supported by many officials may be confronting federal investigations , disputes over student discipline — and the prospect that the protests start all over again in the fall . byjeremy w . peters around now , university officials might usually take a deep breath . campuses are emptying out for the end of the academic year . gone , for the most part , are the tent cities that student activists erected as a symbol of opposition to israel ’ s war in gaza . but this summer might feel longer than most . congressional republicans have promised to press their investigation into college antisemitism , even as they have completed their latest hearing , which they tried to turn into a public shaming session for the leaders of rutgers , northwestern and the university of california , los angeles , over their handling of campus encampments . and protesters have likewise promised not to give up — with hundreds walking out at harvard ’ s graduation on thursday , and students at u . c . l . a . pitching new tents and briefly taking over a building . over the next few months , colleges will need to navigate a complex set of challenges . there are ongoing federal investigations at scores of universities and school districts over their handling of antisemitism claims . there are hundreds of discipline cases to be decided . and plans are needed for the fall , when college quads will fill back up just a couple of months before the presidential election — possibly with more protesters . here is what may keep university presidents up at night . one of the major takeaways from the hearing on thursday was that the three universities had yet to resolve scores of disciplinary cases involving student protesters . the chancellor of u . c . l . a ., gene block , said on thursday that the school was conducting more than 100 investigations into student conduct involving both antisemitism and islamophobia . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement