as students in columbia ’ s class of 2024 received their diplomas , many of them were grappling with what intense activism on campus would mean to their futures . at barnard college , mariame sissoko , the student government president , began to question the value of always following the rules . credit ... ahmed gaber for the new york times supported by byemma goldberg emma goldberg spent the weeks leading up to graduation interviewing more than a dozen students across columbia ’ s and barnard ’ s campuses and attending their graduations . standing on the stage at radio city music hall , mariame sissoko began to speak in a voice trembling , ever so slightly . growing up in philadelphia , sissoko was outspoken , a high achiever , captain of the high school debate team . in other words , just the sort of person who would go to barnard college , run for student government and wind up giving a graduation speech before an audience of 4 , 700 university officials , classmates and parents . sissoko , 22 , who uses nonbinary pronouns , had been warned by administrators not to deviate from the speech they had turned in weeks earlier . but that speech was written before a pro - palestinian encampment sprang up on the main lawn of columbia ( barnard ’ s sibling school ), before students occupied an academic building , hamilton hall , and the police made more than100arrests , before the campus became a locus of anger over the more than 35 , 000people killedin gaza during the war and of fear over risingantisemitism . now , on graduation day , sissoko put those warnings from administrators aside . “ to stand on this stage today is a privilege ,” sissoko said . “ it is a privilege that over 15 , 000 children in gaza will never receive .” sissoko ’ s classmates broke into applause . on sissoko ’ s lapel was a poppy , meant to honor a 6 - year - old palestinian girl killed during the war and a 10 - month - old israeli baby taken hostage by hamas . “ i know that there are countless poppies with the names of children in gaza who have been killed ,” sissoko continued . “ they will walk across this stage with us .” as sissoko paused , classmates seated in the audience began to sing an anthem that was popularized during the civil rights movement and that pro - palestinian protesters at columbia had now taken up : “ we shall not , we shall not be moved .” from the rows of family seating came cries of “ boo !,” a chorus that grew louder as the students kept singing . an automated voice came over the loudspeaker : “ today ’ s speaker shared personal views , which may not reflect the views and values of barnard college .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement