advertisement supported by at pro - palestinian demonstrations , students have broken codes of conduct and , sometimes , the law . but the question of whether and how to discipline them is vexing universities . byjeremy w . peters youssef hasweh expected to receive his diploma from the university of chicago on saturday . what he got instead was an email from the associate dean of students informing him that , because he was under investigation for his participation in a protest encampment on the campus quad , “ your degree will not be conferred until the resolution of this matter .” like scores of other student demonstrators across the country , mr . hasweh has been swept up into a kind of disciplinary limbo . although he was allowed to participate in graduation , his university is withholding his degree until it determines whether and how to punish him for breaking its code of conduct for refusing to vacate an encampment , which the police cleared on may 7 . he has already been formally reprimanded by the university for being part of a group thatoccupiedan administration building last year in a protest over the israel - hamas war . transcript “ this is the graduation gown that i may or may not be wearing — if they let me walk . i ’ m leaving uchicago with a criminal record and maybe not with a degree . my name is youssef . i ’ m a brooklyn native . i ’ m half palestinian , half moroccan , and uchicago was definitely my dream school .” “ oh my god . i got to the university of chicago . mom !” “ and during my time here my mission was to make it a dream school for other folks . and that sort of led me straight into the admissions office . i became a student visit coordinator . i gave tours . i got to act as a college rep . and that sort of bubble of being an ambassador for uchicago on the global scale popped when i started talking about my identity , and i started talking about being palestinian and critiquing the university .” [ chanting ] [ unclear ] “ we ’ ve been doing actions all year . blockades , sit - ins , rallies , protests , banner drops , flyers , brochures — everything . we really just wanted a meeting with paul , the president of the university of chicago . so we wanted , like , financial records . we wanted transparency . we wanted to know where our money was going . and then we wanted the university to divest from all israeli entities . and it took having to occupy a building and perform a sit - in . like , 30 of us went into rosenwald , which is the admissions office , and we just sort of set up camp .” [ chanting ] [ unclear ] “ i was just thinking to myself , oh , like , i ’ m going to be arrested .” [ chanting ] “ you invest in genocide .” “ the state attorney had made a statement that she wasn ’ t going to prosecute protest charges . so as soon as our charges were dropped , the university decided to go through the formal process for us , which means everything is on the table . we could be suspended . we could be expelled .” “ we came back to join a national encampment movement .” “ we won ’ t stop until we win .” “ we actually were planning an encampment as well , prior to columbia ’ s launch . just seeing solidarity all over the country made us more confident to do this encampment .” “ what do you know .” “ where does all our money go .” “ where does our money go .” “ i have family in palestine , and i ’ m living in palestine . this is my 24 / 7 . i mean , i ’ m done . like , i have nothing left here . and that ’ s weird , like , coming from me , who spent so many years , not just , like , loving this university , but helping others love it . like , i ’ m crushed that the university would ever do this . i feel like i have nothing left at the university here , but people in palestine truly have nothing .” the question of how harshly to discipline these students cuts deep in academia , where many universities take pride in their history of student activism , on issues such as civil rights , the vietnam war , south african apartheid and income inequality . some faculty members themselves celebrate such activism and encourage students to become politically involved — and have also faced arrest and discipline for doing so . but today , some students have made a demand of their colleges that is vexing administrators and veterans of past social movements : they want all charges against them , both academic and legal , dropped . many students have been charged with criminal misdemeanors , such as trespassing . others havefaced disciplinefrom their universities , which can range from a warning on their records to suspensions and expulsions . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement