advertisement supported by news analysis president biden has promised to support the two countries for as long as it takes . both their wars appear to be at critical turning points . bydavid e . sanger reporting from washington over the past five days , president biden has been engaged in a very public demonstration of the struggles of managing two of america ’ s most difficult allies , president volodymyr zelensky of ukraine and prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel , both leading countries that the president has vowed to defend , as long as it takes . the conflicts they are engaged in could not be more different , born out of grievances that reach back decades . but by coincidence , both confrontations seem to be at critical turning points , that moment when it becomes obvious how starkly national interests are diverging — to say nothing of the political interests of three leaders clearly worried about their own hold on power . adding to the complexity of the problem , it is unclear in washington exactly what an acceptable endgame might look in ukraine or in gaza . officially , ukraine still talks about total victory , pushing russia out of every inch of territory it seized since the february 2022 invasion . israel still speaks of the goal of the “ total destruction ” of hamas , the only way to assure that it could never again mount an attack like the oct . 7 assault that killed nearly 1 , 200 israelis and sparked seven months of brutal retaliation . but in washington , those rallying calls sound increasingly unrealistic . russia appears to be regaining momentum . the call for the total defeat of hamas sounds like a rationale for perpetual war — and , in fact , israeli officials have publicly declared the war in gaza will likely continue to the end of the year , if not longer . so mr . biden has taken to crisis management , trying to prevent the worst , even if he cannot answer the question of how , exactly , these wars end . “ neither ukraine nor israel is a treaty ally ,” said aaron david miller , a senior fellow at the carnegie endowment for international peace and a longtime mideast negotiator . he was referring to the status of the other 31 members of nato , which are obliged to come to one another ’ s defense , and the formal american pacts with japan , south korea , the philippines and others . “ and yet we are fully invested in how to get these wars to the next phase , a phase where we lessen the violence , even if we can ’ t articulate a realistic vision of how it stops .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement