israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by two coalition members threatened to topple israel ’ s government if prime minister benjamin netanyahu accepted a deal for a cease - fire and the release of hostages that stopped short of hamas ’ s total destruction . byadam rasgon prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel maneuvered into rougher political waters on monday , as two far - right partners threatened to bring down his government should israel agree to a cease - fire deal that would end the war in gaza without eliminating hamas . mr . netanyahu told lawmakers in a closed - door meeting on monday that president biden had not presented the “ whole picture ” when he described a proposed cease - fire from the white house last week , according to a person who attended the meeting and requested anonymity . mr . netanyahu , however , expressed openness to a 42 - day pause in the fighting , the person said , embracing at least part of the first phase of the three - part cease - fire plan . mr . biden called the three - phase proposal , which he said was put forward by israel , a road map to an “ enduring cease - fire ” and to the release of the remaining hostages in gaza . if hamas abided by the agreement ’ s terms , the president said , it would ultimately lead to the “ cessation of hostilities permanently .” “ it ’ s time to end this war ,” mr . biden said two - far - right members of mr . netanyahu ’ s governing coalition , itamar ben - gvir , the national security minister , and bezalel smotrich , the finance minister , said on monday that they could not accept any deal that stops short of completely eliminating hamas . as mr . biden described it on friday , the israeli military ’ s attacks in gaza had already eliminated hamas as a major threat , and that “ at this point , hamas is no longer capable of carrying out another oct . 7 .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement