israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the security council endorsed a u . s .- backed plan , while secretary of state antony j . blinken visited the middle east to lobby for it , but hamas and israel were noncommittal . transcript “ 14 votes in favor , zero votes against , one abstention . the draft resolution has been adopted as resolution 2735 .” “ colleagues , the cease - fire deal would pave the way toward an enduring cessation of hostilities and a better future for all . as president biden acknowledged just the other day , the palestinian people have endured sheer hell in this war started by hamas . there ’ s an opportunity to chart a different course .” byfarnaz fassihi , michael crowley , mike ivesandthomas fuller the united nations security council on monday adopted a u . s .- backed cease - fire plan for the gaza strip with only russia abstaining , a sign of the growing frustration among the world ’ s major powers over the war and the desire to bring it to an end . linda thomas - greenfield , the u . s . ambassador to the united nations , told members of the security council that israel had already agreed to the deal laid out in the resolution — although israel has so far resisted taking a public position on it — and she urged hamas “ to do the same .” “ hamas can now see that the international community is united , united behind a deal that will save lives and help palestinian civilians in gaza start to rebuild and heal ,” ms . thomas - greenfield said . the 14 - 0 vote may strengthen the hand of secretary of state antony j . blinken , who returned to the middle east on monday to press hamas and israel to agree to a cease - fire . but in a sign of the difficulties facing mr . blinken and other mediators in achieving a final deal , israel ’ s representative to the u . n ., reut shapir ben - naftaly , did not say that israel had accepted the terms of the cease - fire plan . she said that her country ’ s goals in the war had not changed and that it would use military operations to free hostages , as it did just two days ago . “ we will continue until all of the hostages are returned and hamas ’ s military capabilities are dismantled ,” ms . shapir ben - naftaly told the council . she said if hamas leaders freed all hostages and turned themselves in , “ not one shot would be fired .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement