israel - hamaswar advertisement simon harris , ireland ’ s prime minister , invoked his nation ’ s struggle for independence from britain and its decades of violent sectarian conflict . bymegan specia when the irish government on wednesday announced formal recognition of an independent palestinian state , it drew on its own struggle for statehood and the violence that surrounded it . “ from our own history we know what it means : recognition is an act of powerful political and symbolic value ,” simon harris , the taoiseach , or prime minister of ireland , said at a news briefing . mr . harris was nodding to the republic of ireland ’ s quest for self - rule in the early part of the 20th century after hundreds of years of british rule . he detailed how , on jan . 21 , 1919 , ireland asked the world to recognize its right to independence . “ our message to the free nations of the world was a plea for international recognition of our independence , emphasizing our distinct national identity , our historical struggle and our right to self - determination and justice ,” he said . “ today we use the same language to support the recognition of palestine as a state .” ireland condemned hamas after the group led the oct . 7 attack on israel that officials there say killed some 1 , 200 people . and since the start of the conflict in gaza , it has sharply rebuked israel for its assault that gazan authorities say has left more than 35 , 000 people dead . mr . harris emphasized that ireland ’ s announcement , which came on the same day as similar moves byspain and norway , did not diminish his country ’ s relationship with israel . instead , he said , it was an acknowledgment that israel and a state of palestine had an equal right to exist . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement