israel - hamaswar advertisement u . s . air force cargo planes dropped 36 , 800 ready - to - eat meals , in a joint operation with the jordanian air force , but a pentagon spokesman said were no plans to put u . s . forces on the ground . byhelene cooper the united states made a second round of airdrops of humanitarian aid into the gaza strip on tuesday , as the biden administration continued its efforts to prevent a greater humanitarian disaster in the palestinian territory . u . s . air force cargo planes dropped 36 , 800 ready - to - eat meals , in a joint operation with the jordanian air force , “ to provide essential relief to civilians affected by the ongoing conflict ,” u . s . central command said in a statement on tuesday . it said that army troops trained in aerial delivery were part of the airdrop , and that it was planning more such missions . however , the pentagon said on tuesday that the united states did not intend to send its troops into gaza to strengthen the aid distribution process . “ at this time there are no plans to put u . s . forces on the ground in gaza ,” maj . gen . patrick ryder , a pentagon spokesman , said at a news conference . some aid experts and humanitarian groups have criticized the american airdrops as insufficient and largely symbolic , given the scale of the hunger problem facing gaza after five months of war . cargo planes can only move a fraction of the food a convoy of trucks can deliver , experts say , and a better solution would be for the united states to persuade israel to open more border crossings and speed up inspections . the operation on tuesday followed a first round of airdrops on saturday , two days aftermore than 100 palestinians were killedas israeli forces opened fire around a convoy of aid trucks in northern gaza . doctors at gaza hospitals said most of the casualties were from gunfire . the israeli military said most of the victims were trampled as they tried to seize the cargo , although israeli officials acknowledged that troops had fired on some people who they said had threatened them . after the convoy killings , president biden said the united states would find new ways to get aid to palestinians in desperate need because of israel ’ s five - month military campaign to destroy hamas . only atrickle of aidhas been reaching northern gaza via land , but aid groups have criticized airdrops asineffective . the amount of aid delivered by a french plane in anairdroplast week was much less than a single truckload . although mr . biden has implored israel , which has largely sealed its border with gaza , to clear the way for more aid deliveries , the demand for food , water and medicine there remains huge . those conditions have put mr . biden under political pressure to do more to help the palestinians , even as the united states supplies israel with military hardware . despite his frustrations with israel ’ s political leadership , mr . biden has not threatened to put limits on american military aid to the country . helene cooperis a pentagon correspondent . she was previously an editor , diplomatic correspondent and white house correspondent . more about helene cooper advertisement