israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by when a truck carrying three of four rescued hostages broke down and came under fire , israel says it called in an airstrike . scores of palestinians were killed , gazan officials say . bybilal shbairandronen bergman bilal shbair reported from nuseirat in the gaza strip , and ronen bergman from tel aviv . when the four israelis woke up in gaza on saturday , they had been heldhostage by hamas for 245 days . the buildings in which they were being kept , two low - rise , concrete apartment blocks , looked much like the other nearby residences in a civilian neighborhood full of palestinian families . within a few hours , the captives , three men and one woman , would be reunited with their own families , the result of a risky , long - planned rescue operation in which the full might of the israeli military would be used to devastating effect . “ i ’ m so emotional ,” one hostage , noa argamani , 26 , told prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel in a phone call after her release . “ it ’ s been so long since i heard hebrew .” the rescue effort in nuseirat involved hundreds of intelligence officers and two teams of commandos who simultaneously stormed the homes in which the hostages were being held , the israeli military said . in one apartment , where the male hostages were imprisoned , a firefight broke out between the soldiers and the hamas guards , according to the military and video footage it released of the encounter . later , and under a hail of gunfire , the truck in which three hostages and a wounded israeli officer were being evacuated broke down and was surrounded by militants , israeli officials said . in an effort to give the rescuers enough time and ample cover to get the captives to freedom , the military said , the air force began striking dozens of nearby targets . many palestinians became aware of the fighting only when they heard bombs exploding . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement