israel - hamaswar advertisement robert o ’ brien , one of donald trump ’ s closest foreign policy advisers , said he was there as a “ private citizen .” byjonathan swan one of former president donald j . trump ’ s closest foreign policy advisers , robert o ’ brien , met with prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel on monday as part of a delegation of former trump officials that visited a number of israeli leaders . mr . o ’ brien , who served as national security adviser to mr . trump and is expected to play a significant role in any second trump administration , was joined in the meetings by two other former trump officials — the former ambassador to the united arab emirates , john rakolta , and the former ambassador to switzerland , ed mcmullen . the members of the delegation were described by marshall wittmann , a spokesman for the american israel public affairs committee , the pro - israel lobbying group whose affiliate , the american israel education foundation , funded and organized the trip . in a brief phone interview , mr . o ’ brien said he had wanted to visit israel ever since the hamas - led attack on oct . 7 to express his “ solidarity for israel and the jewish people .” mr . o ’ brien said mr . trump was aware of his trip to israel , but he said the former president had not asked him to go or directed him to say anything to mr . netanyahu . he said he was there as a “ private citizen ,” adding that he did express his view to mr . netanyahu that the hamas terrorist attack would never have happened if mr . trump were still president . asked whether mr . netanyahu also expressed these views about mr . trump , mr . o ’ brien said : “ he ’ s a pro , and he understands he needs good relations with the biden administration . but that was my sentiment .” the former trump administration officials and mr . netanyahu met on monday not long after the international criminal court ’ s chief prosecutor in the hague , karim khan , sought arrest warrants for mr . netanyahu , his defense chief and three hamas leaders on charges of crimes against humanity . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement