israel - hamaswar advertisement the president outlined a plan to try to get hamas and israel to break out of a monthslong deadlock that has resulted in the killing of thousands of palestinians . transcript israel has offered a comprehensive new proposal . it ’ s a road map to an enduring cease - fire and the release of all hostages . this proposal has been transmitted by qatar to hamas . this is truly a decisive moment . israel has made their proposal . hamas says it wants a cease - fire . this deal is an opportunity to prove whether they really mean it . hamas needs to take the deal . for months , people all over the world have called for cease - fire . now it ’ s time to raise your voices and demand that hamas come to the table , agrees to this deal and ends this war that they began . at this point , hamas no longer is capable of carrying out another oct . 7 . and the palestinian people have endured sheer hell in this war . too many innocent people have been killed , including thousands of children . it ’ s time to begin this new stage . the hostages come home , for israel to be secure , for the suffering to stop . it ’ s time for this war to end , and for the day after to begin . thank you very much . byzolan kanno - youngsanddavid e . sanger zolan kanno - youngs reported from rehoboth beach , del ., where president biden will be spending the weekend . david e . sanger reported from washington . declaring hamas no longer capable of carrying out a major terrorist attack on israel , president biden said on friday that it was time for a permanent cease - fire in gaza and endorsed a new plan he said israel had offered to win the release of hostages and end the fighting . “ it ’ s time for this war to end , for the day after to begin ,” mr . biden said , speaking from the state dining room at the white house . he also gave a stark description of hamas ’ s diminished capabilities after more than seven months of israeli attacks , saying that “ at this point , hamas is no longer capable of carrying out another oct . 7 .” “ this is truly a decisive moment ,” mr . biden said . “ israel has made their proposal . hamas says it wants a cease - fire . this deal is an opportunity to prove whether they really mean it .” with that statement , mr . biden appeared to be revealing his true agenda : making public elements of the proposal in an effort to pressure both hamas and israel to break out of a monthslong deadlock that has resulted in the killing of thousands of palestinians . american officials have describedhamas ’ s leader , yahya sinwar , as interested only in his own survival and that of his family and inner circle , as they presumably operate from tunnels deep under southern gaza . but officials have also said prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel has little incentive to move to a real cease - fire , because of the widespread belief in israel that as soon as the surviving hostages are returned , and a last cease - fire begins , he will most likely lose his fragile hold on power . mr . biden ’ s remarks came at a pivotal moment in his re - election campaign , a day after his rival , former president donald j . trump , was convicted of 34 felony charges . at the same time , he has been facing growing pressure at home over the bloodshed in gaza , which has led to eruptions on college campuses and on the streets of american cities , and alienated many of his own supporters . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement