israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis the proposal backed by president biden is deeply political and aims at stopping the war at least for now . but israel rejects a permanent cease - fire and hamas has its own reasons for reluctance . bysteven erlanger steven erlanger , a former jerusalem bureau chief who has spent many weeks in the middle east since oct . 7 , reported from jerusalem . even as hamas and the israeli government appear to be inching closer to a cease - fire agreement , analysts are deeply skeptical that the sides will ever implement a deal that goes beyond a temporary truce . at issue is a three - phase agreement , proposed by israel and backed by the united states and some arab countries , which if fully realized could eventually see the total withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza , the return of all remaining hostages captured in the oct . 7 attack and a reconstruction plan for the territory . but making it to that finish line is impossible if the parties are unwilling to even start the race or to agree on where it should end . fundamentally , the wrangling is not just about how long a cease - fire in gaza should last or at what point it should be implemented , but whether israel can ever accept a long - term truce as long as hamas retains significant control . for israel to agree to hamas ’ s demands for a permanent cease - fire from the start , it must acknowledge that hamas will remain undestroyed and will play a role in the territory ’ s future , conditions israel ’ s government cannot abide . on the flip side , hamas says it won ’ t consider a temporary cease - fire without the guarantees of a permanent one that effectively ensures its survival , even at the cost of countless more palestinian lives , lest israel restart the war once its hostages are returned . yet after eight months of a grinding war , there are signs that the sides could be moving closer to the first proposed phase : a six - week conditional cease - fire . while that step is hardly guaranteed , getting to the plan ’ s second phase , which envisages a permanent cessation of hostilities and the full withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza , is even more unlikely , analysts said . “ it is wrong to see this proposal as more than a stopgap ,” said natan sachs , director of the center for middle east policy at the brookings institution . “ most important , this plan doesn ’ t answer the fundamental question of who rules gaza after the conflict . this is a cease - fire plan , not a day - after plan .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement