for more audio journalism and storytelling , download new york times audio , a new ios app available for news subscribers . transcript this transcript was created using speech recognition software . while it has been reviewed by human transcribers , it may contain errors . please review the episode audio before quoting from this transcript and email transcripts @ nytimes . com with any questions . from “ the new york times ,” i ’ m sabrina tavernise , and this is “ the daily .” [ music playing ] earlier this week , the top prosecutor of the international criminal court requested arrest warrants for israel ’ s prime minister and its defense minister . the move shocked israelis and set up a possible showdown between the world ’ s top criminal court and israel , together with its biggest ally , the united states . today , my colleague , jerusalem bureau chief patrick kingsley , explains . [ music playing ] it ’ s thursday , may 23rd . [ music playing ] so , patrick , earlier this week , there was a pretty surprising announcement by the international criminal court in the hague . it had to do with israel and hamas . tell us what happened . well , on monday morning , we were all taken by surprise by an announcement from the chief prosecutor at the icc , the international criminal court , the top criminal court in the world . it tries individuals accused of war crimes . and the chief prosecutor announced that he was requesting arrest warrants for five individuals involved in the war between israel and hamas for crimes against humanity . three of them were from hamas — yahya sinwar , the head of hamas within gaza , the hamas military commander , and the political leader of hamas , who ’ s based in qatar . but maybe the biggest news in this announcement was that the chief prosecutor was seeking the arrest of two of israel ’ s top leaders — benjamin netanyahu , the prime minister , and yoav gallant , the defense minister . and this was a massive bombshell . these two men are leaders from a major us ally . they ’ re in regular contact with the us government , and they were being implicitly equated with the three top leaders of an organization , hamas , that many consider a terrorist organization . and this equation sent shockwaves through israeli society and , indeed , around the world . so this is absolutely remarkable , patrick . i mean , i , for one , was quite surprised by seeing this . i want to dig into it with you . so who is this prosecutor behind these requests for these warrants ? and how did he reach this decision to go for them in the first place ? so the prosecutor ’ s name is karim khan , and he is a british lawyer , a british barrister . he is 54 . he ’ s led a very impressive career . he has spent years working on human rights cases , both defending people and also prosecuting in such cases . he was involved in tribunals related to the wars surrounding the breakup of the former yugoslavia , rwanda . he investigated islamic state crimes in iraq . and in 2021 , he is appointed the top prosecutor at the icc . and what are his responsibilities as top prosecutor ? well , it ’ s his job to travel the world and investigate allegations of human rights abuses , war crimes , crimes against humanity , and in the process , plays a key role in deciding who gets prosecuted at the international criminal court . the icc and the icc prosecutor investigates and tries people who would not be pursued by the judicial system within their countries of origin . it steps in when it seems like the domestic authorities in any given country are not doing their job . and last year , he famously went after president putin in russia in connection with the war in ukraine . so at what point did this prosecutor , karim khan , turn his attention to israel and gaza ? well , he actually inherits an investigation from his predecessor that ’ s looking at israel ’ s conduct and also that of hamas during a previous war in 2014 between the two sides . but then that gets superseded on october 7th by the horrors that we saw that day committed by hamas and then by the scale and damage caused by israel ’ s bombing campaign in its counterattack . and we begin to see not only revulsion and horror at what hamas had done in early october , but also growing criticism and condemnation of what israel and its air force did in its response . you ’ ll remember that earlier this year , the international court of justice , a separate court also in the hague , began to address claims that israel was and is committing a genocide in gaza , a claim that israel strongly denies . right . that was the case that south africa brought . we did an episode about that . yes , exactly . so as the world ’ s attention focuses on this new conflict , so does karim khan ’ s . also today , the international criminal court ’ s chief prosecutor , karim khan , qc , has wrapped up a visit to israel and the occupied west bank . khan has visited the region to investigate if war crimes were committed on october 7th . we start to see him arrive in israel visiting some of the sites that hamas attacked last year , talking to survivors , talking to leaders , reviewing security camera footage , and so on . i have just come from the border of the rafah crossing , and we could see gaza , at least we could see cranes that were on the territory of gaza . and he also visited the rafah crossing between egypt and gaza , talks to palestinians . at the ministry of justice in ramallah , the chief prosecutor of the world ’ s highest court . he goes to the israeli occupied west bank , to ramallah , where the palestinian authority is based , building up evidence that led to this announcement on monday . [ music playing ] today , i ’ m filing applications for warrants of arrest before pre - trial chamber i of the international criminal court . and he makes this very dramatic announcement in a video . my office has diligently collected evidence and interviewed survivors and eyewitnesses at the scene of at least six major attack locations . flanked on each side by two of his deputies . i have reasonable grounds to believe that three senior leaders of hamas , yahya sinwar , mohammed deif and ismail haniyeh , bear criminal responsibility for the following international crimes . and the accusations that he makes against the three hamas leaders focus on the violent actions that hamas took on october 7th . extermination as a crime against humanity . murder as a crime against humanity . and he walked through a long list of charges stemming from the extraordinary violence during that attack . the taking of hostages as a war crime . rape and other acts of sexual violence during captivity . and he says there are reasonable grounds to believe that hostages taken from israel have been subject to sexual violence , including rape , while being held in captivity . and he cites assessment of medical records , video , and documentary evidence , as well as interviews with victims and survivors . and i repeat and underline my call for the immediate release of all hostages taken from israel and for their immediate safe return to their families . so this prosecutor sees the atrocities on october 7th and then what followed with hamas taking the hostages , abusing them , as crimes against humanity . that ’ s what it amounted to in his view ? exactly . and what about the charges against the israelis ? these are slightly different . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and minister of defense yoav gallant bear criminal responsibility for the following international crimes . obviously , a lot of the outcry and horror at the war in gaza has centered around israel ’ s airstrikes that have killed tens of thousands of gazans . but karim khan focuses not on the military actions of benjamin netanyahu and yoav gallant , his defense minister , but on the accusation of — starvation of civilians as a method of warfare . — starvation . the idea that israel has allegedly sought to restrict and block aid deliveries , food supplies to gaza with the intent to starve the civilian population there . these individuals , through a common plan , have systematically deprived the civilian population of gaza of objects indispensable to human survival . and that ’ s primarily based on the fact that for the first two weeks of the war , until october 21st or so , israel blocked all aid entry to gaza after yoav gallant , the defense minister , one of these two israelis whose arrests mr . khan seeks , said that he was imposing a total siege on gaza — no food , no fuel , no electricity . and while that total siege was eased towards the end of october , khan also notes that there have been continuing restrictions on essential supplies , like food and medicine , ever since . that conduct took place alongside attacks that killed civilians , the obstruction of aid delivery by humanitarian organizations , and attacks on aid workers that forced many of those same humanitarian organizations to either cease operations or limit their life - saving efforts in gaza . the implication is that the famine that he says is present in some areas of gaza and imminent in other areas is in part the responsibility of netanyahu and gallant . that starvation has caused and continues to cause deaths , malnutrition , dehydration , and profound suffering among the population . my office charges netanyahu and gallant as co - perpetrators and as superiors in the commission of these alleged crimes . why is the focus of these charges starvation ? i mean , given that the airstrikes , as you say , were in many ways really the focus of this war and certainly the focus of the world ’ s attention on this war , the civilian deaths from the military operation . why starvation ? karim khan does not explain why he focuses on starvation rather than israel ’ s military tactics , which he mentions only in passing . but legal experts have said that it ’ s easier to prove that starvation was used as a method of warfare than it is to prove that there have been any specific crimes involved in any specific airstrikes . and that ’ s because under the rules of war and international law , it ’ s not necessarily illegal in and of itself to kill civilians during wartime . if a military assesses , with the help of military lawyers , that the likely civilian death toll caused by that strike is proportional to the value of the military target , then that , in many cases , will be in accordance with the rules of war . if a military can prove that sense of proportionality , then it ’ s actually quite hard to prove that there was any crime committed in the process . so in other words , military actions are often weighed quite carefully . in the case of , say , a modern military like israel ’ s or the united states , there are lawyers that look at these things . it ’ s not necessarily so easy to prove that something was disproportionate and should be considered a crime . exactly . whereas with the crime of starvation , legal experts say that it ’ s potentially easier to prove that there was some wrongdoing there because yoav gallant , the israeli defense minister , went on record in a public statement , and he announced that there would be a total siege on the territory of gaza . and that was followed by an action , the action of closing off gaza ’ s borders for the next two weeks , and no aid was allowed in . during that time , there were restrictions on electricity , water , fuel , as well as food . and that ’ s why legal experts think that karim khan has gone after israel with the crime of starvation rather than focusing on their military operations . but i suppose just thinking about our coverage , patrick , and the conversations you and i have had , famine and starvation and a civilian population in extreme distress trapped in a small piece of territory is also not a small thing , right ? that is also something that makes sense that the court would be considering . absolutely , it ’ s a huge thing . people don ’ t have to be hit by an airstrike to be living through an absolutely catastrophic situation . so these charges really seem to spell bad news for israel and for these two israeli leaders , netanyahu and gallant . and it ’ s remarkable because these are men who , as you say , are some of america ’ s closest allies . i mean , they ’ re , you know , at the pentagon . they ’ re having meetings with president biden . and now , the chief prosecutor of the icc is saying that they are war criminals . yes , it is a very dramatic moment in the view of some people , a turning point , and certainly , we can say that it is one of the harshest rebukes of israel ’ s wartime conduct since october 7th . [ music playing ] but within israel , there ’ s been a very different reaction . and it ’ s not all bad news for benjamin netanyahu . [ music playing ] we ’ ll be right back . [ music playing ] so , patrick , what do israelis make of this announcement ? within israel , the reaction has been very different . whether it ’ s netanyahu ’ s allies or his critics , there has been almost uniform outrage that the prosecutor for the icc would make these accusations . and it means that at a time of rising domestic criticism of prime minister netanyahu across the political spectrum , with only a very few exceptions , everyone has rallied behind netanyahu and gallant . despite the fact that netanyahu is increasingly unpopular and even within his own government , there have been growing criticism of his wartime strategy . for example , just two days before the prosecutor ’ s announcement , one of the senior members of his own wartime cabinet , benny gantz , issued netanyahu with an ultimatum , warning him that he would quit the government if he did not spell out a plan for a post - war gaza . then , suddenly , the announcement comes from karim khan that netanyahu and gallant are under investigation . and gantz is one of the first to come out with a condemnation of karim khan and a defense of the israeli government . that is the clearest example of how even critics of netanyahu have fallen in line , circled the wagons , and presented a united front . this is really interesting . so this action by the prosecutor has kind of had the effect of actually closing divisions that were starting to appear in israeli society , effectively bringing netanyahu ’ s critics kind of back into his camp , or at least making it harder to criticize him . exactly . and israelis , in general , feel that israel has always been targeted unfairly , held to a higher standard than many other countries , and that this is , once again , another example of that , another example of israel being accused of things that other countries do but get away with . and there have been broadly three criticisms from the israelis of the icc prosecutor . first , the israeli claim is that the icc prosecutor is making a horrible false equivalence between hamas , a terrorist organization , and israel , a democratic state . hamas raided israel and launched the bloodiest attack on jews in a single day since the holocaust . israel , in the eyes of israelis , is fighting a righteous response to protect their citizens and to win back the liberty of the hostages that were captured on october 7th . [ music playing ] this guy is out to demonize israel . he ’ s doing a hit job . and netanyahu himself articulated some of the clearest versions of this argument when he went on american television . he ’ s creating false symmetry , false facts , and he ’ s doing a grave injustice to the international court . and he called khan ’ s decision absurd , an effort to demonize israel and to hold it to far higher standards than any other country . he said it would have been as if after 9 / 11 — that ’ s like saying after 9 / 11 , well , i ’ m issuing arrest warrants for george bush , but also for bin laden . — arrest warrants had been issued for both osama bin laden and george bush . or after , in world war ii , well , i ’ m issuing arrest warrants for fdr , but also for hitler . it ’ s a hit job . it ’ s not serious . he ’ s out to defame israel , and he ’ s also pouring gasoline — [ music playing ] the second criticism from israelis has been about process . the icc was created about two decades ago by a treaty . more than 120 countries have signed that treaty , but israel has not . and israel contends that the prosecutor doesn ’ t have the authority , therefore , to go after israeli political leaders . israelis also say that khan didn ’ t spend enough time assessing whether israel was itself investigating these allegations within its own judicial system . remember that the icc is a court of last resort . it ’ s only supposed to intervene when a domestic judicial system is genuinely not making any effort to investigate the alleged crime . and israelis are saying that khan didn ’ t spend enough time investigating gallant and netanyahu . the icc prosecutors have spent 10 years investigating alleged crimes committed during a previous war between israel and hamas , but this decision has been issued within just a few months . and israelis are saying that khan jumped the gun in that sense . so the israelis are saying , look , we ’ re trying to get to it , but you just didn ’ t give us enough time . exactly . and they ’ ve even said that khan ’ s team was supposed to be coming this very week to continue that conversation and assess whether israel was genuinely looking into these allegations by itself . and that they misled israel by pretending that they would be making that assessment when , in fact , all along they were planning to request arrest warrants . interesting . so for israeli officials , they ’ re seeing it as a kind of activist thing , as opposed to a neutral judicial decision . that ’ s their claim , at least . the prosecutor ’ s office says that they have tried to sincerely engage with israel on this issue , but that it ’ s become clear to them that israel does not seriously investigate this kind of crime . so you said , there are three elements to this . what ’ s the last ? the third and last element is on the content of the claim itself . israel flatly denies that it is responsible for the humanitarian crisis in gaza . it even denies that there is a famine or that the situation is on the point of a famine . it points out all the ways in which it has worked to get much more aid into gaza since october , including opening more crossings , allowing the us to create a pier on the shoreline of gaza . it ’ s allowed some countries to airdrop aid . and certainly , the amount of aid that has gone in recent months has dwarfed the amount that was going in october and november . and while it accepts that its soldiers have obstructed and , at times , even killed aid workers , it says that that obscures the fact that it coordinates every day in detail with aid groups to facilitate thousands of aid missions every month . isn ’ t israel ’ s argument that these shipments could also include things that could be very useful for hamas , the group that just killed 1 , 200 of its citizens ? exactly . no one ’ s disputing , least of all israel , that israeli officials are examining all the aid going into gaza . the dispute is about whether that ’ s necessary . israel says it is . it says that if it didn ’ t check , then some of these aid convoys might be smuggling in weapons or material that could be used to fight israel , to kill israeli civilians . and that , therefore , israel has no choice but to examine some of these goods going in . again , the counterargument is that israel ’ s checks are far more stringent than they need to be and end up preventing the entry of everyday items that pose no military threat . ok , so that ’ s the israeli perspective . how does the united states see the prosecutor ’ s request here ? i mean , the us , obviously , israel ’ s biggest ally . well , the american president , president biden , condemned it in no uncertain terms . he said the prosecutor ’ s decision was outrageous . and he condemned him for drawing an implicit equivalence between hamas and the leaders of the state of israel . and why did biden come out so strongly against the prosecutor ? we know that humanitarian aid has been a major concern for this administration . so why would biden be so opposed to something that really is calling out israel for this aid ? first of all , because israel is a major ally of the united states , and the united states wants to show support for its ally . second of all , they fear that this kind of criticism , this kind of intervention , will actually make israel less , rather than more , likely to bring the war to a halt , because the feeling is that it will make israel more defensive and in turn batten down the hatches . the third reason is that the united states , historically , has never been a particular fan of the international criminal court . we mentioned earlier that israel did not sign the treaty that created the icc . well , the united states did not do that either . and that ’ s in part because american leaders fear that having an international global court undermines american sovereignty . they think it ’ s the role of the american judicial system to investigate american citizens . and there is a fear that with the united states so active militarily in many parts of the world , that membership of the court , involvement in the court could pave the way for american soldiers being tried for acting on behalf of the united states . and that could somehow dent american foreign policy goals across the world . ok , so the united states doesn ’ t really like this court , you know , has troops in a lot of places , doesn ’ t want a court swooping in and prosecuting them when something goes wrong . but i guess the question then , in my mind , patrick , is does what this prosecutor is doing matter ? i mean , america is not a signatory . israel is not a signatory . so why is this important ? well , for the time being , its meaning is more symbolic than anything else . first , karim khan has not issued an arrest warrant . he has requested an arrest warrant for these five people . and three judges will now spend weeks and possibly months deciding whether to uphold those requests . that process can be less than a month . in the case of vladimir putin , it was just shy of a month . president bashir of sudan was issued with a warrant . that process took roughly a year . when and if they do do that , however , there will be practical effects . if an arrest warrant is issued , it means that any country that ’ s a member of the international criminal court , in theory , should arrest any of these individuals if they enter their territory . that includes more than 120 countries all over the world , much of europe , latin america , africa , and so on . yes , it ’ s true that the united states and israel are not signatories , and neither are turkey or qatar , two of the countries where hamas officials spend much of their time when they ’ re outside gaza . so there will still be places for officials on either side of these accusations to travel to . but there are lots of other countries , like france , italy , both places where benjamin netanyahu traveled in the past year , where , in theory , they will not be able to set foot . so the negotiations over the war can still continue , but if netanyahu travels to france or to italy , he could be arrested , which is pretty wild . yes , at least that ’ s the theory . the national authorities in any given country still have to make a choice about whether they want to follow through with it . but would those countries perhaps not arrest him out of deference to the united states ? i think the expectation is that if we got into this scenario , then someone like netanyahu simply just wouldn ’ t travel to such a country . but the truth is , we just don ’ t really know . we are entering unchartered waters . so this is really isolating netanyahu in the world . should it go forward ? yes , isolating netanyahu and to some extent israel itself . and it has not just practical implications for the physical movement of netanyahu and his defense minister , gallant , but it also compounds israel ’ s relationship with foreign allies . it complicates israel ’ s ability to arm itself . more countries may grow more unwilling to sell israel arms , or at least they ’ ll face growing pressure because of this decision not to do so . and it also could force the country to become ever more reliant on the united states as it becomes more of a pariah over its actions in gaza . which , of course , puts the united states in an even trickier position with an ally who ’ s been pretty hard to be friends with of late . right . and in truth , while the practical consequences of this move are still unknown , they do , in general , compound the sense that israel is facing more and more diplomatic consequences for its actions . more than a decade ago , a former israeli prime minister warned that israel would face what he called a diplomatic tsunami if its conflict with the palestinians went unresolved . [ music playing ] and it ’ s possible that years later we ’ re starting to finally see what he meant . israel does still have its supporters , many of them , but we ’ re also now seeing during this war a level of criticism that goes above and beyond the kind that we ’ ve grown used to seeing directed at israel over the years . [ music playing ] in addition to the warrant requests we ’ ve seen this week , we ’ ve obviously had an extraordinary wave of protests on american campuses and elsewhere in the world . and earlier this year , we had a watershed moment when the international court of justice began hearing accusations of genocide against israel . and this week , several european countries recognized palestine as a state . wow . so if the tsunami hasn ’ t yet arrived , we can at least say that the waves are getting stronger . [ music playing ] patrick , thank you . thank you . [ music playing ] on wednesday , the leaders of spain , norway , and ireland announced that they would recognize an independent palestinian state . the move was largely symbolic , but raised the concern that if neighboring countries followed their lead , europe could become a counterweight to the american position that statehood for palestinians should come only from a negotiated settlement with israel . [ music playing ] we ’ ll be right back . [ music playing ] here ’ s what else you should know today . nikki haley , the former united nations ambassador who dropped her republican presidential bid in march , said on wednesday that she would vote for donald trump but stopped short of officially endorsing him . haley was trump ’ s longest standing rival in the 2024 primary contest and had carved out an important lane for herself as the voice for voters looking for an alternative to the former president . her decision on whether to endorse him could play a pivotal role in the race . haley has built a formidable network of high - dollar donors and a solid base of college - educated voters that trump needs to win . and the city of uvalde , texas , has reached a settlement with most of the families of children who were shot by a gunman at robb elementary school in 2022 . to avert a lawsuit , the city promised to overhaul the city ’ s police force , create a permanent memorial to the victims , and pay $ 2 million . [ music playing ] today ’ s episode was produced by will reid and diana nguyen with help from shannon lin . it was edited by liz o . baylen with help from michael benoist , contains original music by elisheba ittoop , marion lozano , and pat mccusker , and was engineered by alyssa moxley . our theme music is by jim brunberg and ben landsverk of wonderly . [ music playing ] that ’ s it for “ the daily .” i ’ m sabrina tavernise . see you tomorrow . [ music playing ] transcript this transcript was created using speech recognition software . while it has been reviewed by human transcribers , it may contain errors . please review the episode audio before quoting from this transcript and email transcripts @ nytimes . com with any questions . from “ the new york times ,” i ’ m sabrina tavernise , and this is “ the daily .” [ music playing ] earlier this week , the top prosecutor of the international criminal court requested arrest warrants for israel ’ s prime minister and its defense minister . the move shocked israelis and set up a possible showdown between the world ’ s top criminal court and israel , together with its biggest ally , the united states . today , my colleague , jerusalem bureau chief patrick kingsley , explains . [ music playing ] it ’ s thursday , may 23rd . [ music playing ] so , patrick , earlier this week , there was a pretty surprising announcement by the international criminal court in the hague . it had to do with israel and hamas . tell us what happened . well , on monday morning , we were all taken by surprise by an announcement from the chief prosecutor at the icc , the international criminal court , the top criminal court in the world . it tries individuals accused of war crimes . and the chief prosecutor announced that he was requesting arrest warrants for five individuals involved in the war between israel and hamas for crimes against humanity . three of them were from hamas — yahya sinwar , the head of hamas within gaza , the hamas military commander , and the political leader of hamas , who ’ s based in qatar . but maybe the biggest news in this announcement was that the chief prosecutor was seeking the arrest of two of israel ’ s top leaders — benjamin netanyahu , the prime minister , and yoav gallant , the defense minister . and this was a massive bombshell . these two men are leaders from a major us ally . they ’ re in regular contact with the us government , and they were being implicitly equated with the three top leaders of an organization , hamas , that many consider a terrorist organization . and this equation sent shockwaves through israeli society and , indeed , around the world . so this is absolutely remarkable , patrick . i mean , i , for one , was quite surprised by seeing this . i want to dig into it with you . so who is this prosecutor behind these requests for these warrants ? and how did he reach this decision to go for them in the first place ? so the prosecutor ’ s name is karim khan , and he is a british lawyer , a british barrister . he is 54 . he ’ s led a very impressive career . he has spent years working on human rights cases , both defending people and also prosecuting in such cases . he was involved in tribunals related to the wars surrounding the breakup of the former yugoslavia , rwanda . he investigated islamic state crimes in iraq . and in 2021 , he is appointed the top prosecutor at the icc . and what are his responsibilities as top prosecutor ? well , it ’ s his job to travel the world and investigate allegations of human rights abuses , war crimes , crimes against humanity , and in the process , plays a key role in deciding who gets prosecuted at the international criminal court . the icc and the icc prosecutor investigates and tries people who would not be pursued by the judicial system within their countries of origin . it steps in when it seems like the domestic authorities in any given country are not doing their job . and last year , he famously went after president putin in russia in connection with the war in ukraine . so at what point did this prosecutor , karim khan , turn his attention to israel and gaza ? well , he actually inherits an investigation from his predecessor that ’ s looking at israel ’ s conduct and also that of hamas during a previous war in 2014 between the two sides . but then that gets superseded on october 7th by the horrors that we saw that day committed by hamas and then by the scale and damage caused by israel ’ s bombing campaign in its counterattack . and we begin to see not only revulsion and horror at what hamas had done in early october , but also growing criticism and condemnation of what israel and its air force did in its response . you ’ ll remember that earlier this year , the international court of justice , a separate court also in the hague , began to address claims that israel was and is committing a genocide in gaza , a claim that israel strongly denies . right . that was the case that south africa brought . we did an episode about that . yes , exactly . so as the world ’ s attention focuses on this new conflict , so does karim khan ’ s . also today , the international criminal court ’ s chief prosecutor , karim khan , qc , has wrapped up a visit to israel and the occupied west bank . khan has visited the region to investigate if war crimes were committed on october 7th . we start to see him arrive in israel visiting some of the sites that hamas attacked last year , talking to survivors , talking to leaders , reviewing security camera footage , and so on . i have just come from the border of the rafah crossing , and we could see gaza , at least we could see cranes that were on the territory of gaza . and he also visited the rafah crossing between egypt and gaza , talks to palestinians . at the ministry of justice in ramallah , the chief prosecutor of the world ’ s highest court . he goes to the israeli occupied west bank , to ramallah , where the palestinian authority is based , building up evidence that led to this announcement on monday . [ music playing ] today , i ’ m filing applications for warrants of arrest before pre - trial chamber i of the international criminal court . and he makes this very dramatic announcement in a vid