israel - hamaswar advertisement it was unclear if negotiators from egypt and qatar would participate . byjulian e . barnesandedward wong reporting from washington william j . burns , the c . i . a . director , who has been the lead american negotiator in efforts for a cease - fire in gaza , plans to travel to europe this weekend for talks with his israeli counterpart to try to revive the stalled discussions over a pause in the fighting and the release of hostages , according to a u . s . official and another person briefed on the negotiations . this month , frustration boiled over between officials from hamas and israel , and the countries mediating — the united states , qatar and egypt — put the talks on hold . israeli officials were upset with what they saw as shifting negotiating stances by hamas , including the number of hostages to be released in a first phase . hamas was upset by israel ’ s operations in rafah , the southern gazan city , whichhave been progressingsince . but core to the dispute were disagreements over how to define a cessation of hostilities between hamas and israel , and how different stages of the cease - fire would be put into effect . the resumption of talks , at an undisclosed location in europe , is expected to take place over the next few days . it is not clear if egyptian and qatari negotiators will join mr . burns and david barnea , the chief of the mossad , israel ’ s spy agency , to directly take part in the discussions . mr . burns , however , has been in close contact with egyptian and qatari negotiators as the mediators look to get the talks back on track , said a u . s . official . in early may , mr . burns did shuttle diplomacybetween egypt and israel trying to push for the first phase of an agreement to begin , including a staggered process for the release of hostages and a temporary halt in fighting . the talks in the coming days are expected to be the first since that round of negotiations ended . while it is unclear what could be achieved with mr . burns ’ s new discussions , restarting the talks is , at this point , a notable development . u . s . officials say a hostage - for - cease - fire agreement has to be reached for all their other diplomatic efforts to get momentum , including discussions of a postwar administration in gaza and a megadeal for a palestinian state that the americans and saudis want israel to agree to . but israeli military operations in rafah continue to complicate the picture . the more aggressive the israeli operations there , the less hamas wants to negotiate . some american officials have said israel is taking their advice on how to mitigate some civilian casualties — which has contributed to an erosion of international support for israel with over 35 , 000 people dead , according to the gazan health authorities . on wednesday , jake sullivan , the u . s . national security adviser , said he was optimistic that israel , so far , was not conducting the kind of major operation in rafah that the united states had feared it would . but questions remain about exactly what the israeli intentions for rafah over the longer term might be . julian e . barnescovers the u . s . intelligence agencies and international security matters for the times . he has written about security issues for more than two decades . more about julian e . barnes edward wongis a diplomatic correspondent who has reported for the times for more than 24 years from new york , baghdad , beijing and washington . he was on a team of pulitzer prize finalists for iraq war coverage . more about edward wong advertisement