advertisement supported by the heads of rutgers , northwestern and u . c . l . a . will be the first university leaders to testify since a wave of protest encampments roiled college campuses . bysharon otterman , ernesto londoñoandnicholas bogel - burroughs for the fourth time in six months , the republican - led house committee on education and the workforce is summoning school leaders to washington to be questioned about accusations of antisemitism at their institutions . this time , on thursday , the committee ’ s focus will be on how three diverse universities reacted when pro - palestinian encampments sprung up on their lawns as part of an international wave of student activism against the war in gaza . two of the schools whose leaders will testify — northwestern and rutgers — made deals with protesters to end their encampments peacefully . the third , the university of california , los angeles , called in the police to dismantle its encampment , but only after a violent attack by counterprotesters the night before caused the situation toveer out of control . representative virginia foxx , the chairwoman of the committee , has blasted rutgers and northwestern for negotiating with the demonstrators , whose views she has described as antisemitic and supportive of terrorism . but she has also derided u . c . l . a .’ s chancellor for calling the police too late , saying he allowed his campus to become a “ severe and pervasive hostile environment for jewish students .” “ the committee has a clear message for mealy - mouthed , spineless college leaders : congress will not tolerate your dereliction of your duty to your jewish students ,” ms . foxx said in amay 16 statementannouncing the hearing . “ no stone must go unturned while buildings are being defaced , campus greens are being captured or graduations are being ruined .” the three college leaders do not dispute that jewish students have faced antisemitism , both on and off their campuses . but all have largely defended their responses , saying that they have taken steps to stop it . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement