israel - hamaswar advertisement top news the israeli military showed family members of the hostages the video a few weeks ago and gave them a copy on tuesday , which they shared . byaaron boxerman reporting from jerusalem the families of several israeli female soldiers taken hostage during the hamas - led attack on oct . 7 have released video of their abduction in an attempt to pressure the israeli government to revivestalledcease - fire talks that could pave the way for the captives ’ release . family members first saw the footage a few weeks ago via the israeli military , which formally handed them a copy on tuesday night , according to the hostages and missing families forum , which represents families of hostages held captive in gaza . “ i ’ m asking you , please show this clip every day , open your broadcasts with it ,” eli albag , whose daughter liri albag can be seenin the video , said in a television interview with israel ’ s channel 12 . “ until somebody wakes up , the nation wakes up , and realizes that they ’ ve been abandoned there for 229 days .” on thursday , the day after the video was made public , prime minister benjamin netanyahu ’ s office said in a statement that israel ’ s war cabinet had ordered its negotiators to “ continue talks to bring home the hostages ” held in gaza . but hopes for immediate progress appeared remote in the shadow of israel ’ s ongoing military operation in rafah , in southern gaza , from which over 800 , 000 palestinians have fled , according to the united nations . some israeli politicians immediately seized on the video on wednesday to try to rebuff the decision by ireland , norway , and spain tounilaterally recognize a palestinian state . israel katz , the foreign minister , said he would screen the footage during a “ severe reprimand ” of the countries ’ ambassadors . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement