israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis the operation conducted by israel ’ s military to free four hostages resulted in a high death toll among palestinians and has not resolved the challenges facing the israeli government . byisabel kershner reporting from jerusalem for months , israelis had heard only about hostages being killed or declared dead in gaza . the “ lucky ” families were those whose loved ones ’ remains were retrieved by soldiers , at great risk , and brought home to israel for burial . so the audacious rescue on saturday of four living hostages instantly raised morale in israel and offered at least a momentary victory for the country ’ s embattled prime minister , benjamin netanyahu . but by sunday , euphoria was already giving way to a harsher reality . the heavy air and ground assault that accompanied the rescue killed scores of palestinians , including civilians , according to gaza health officials , puncturing israel ’ s claims that the operation was a resounding success , at least internationally . and the operation failed to resolve any of the deep dilemmas and challenges vexing the israeli government , according to analysts . eight months into its grinding war in gaza , israel still appears to be far from achieving its stated objectives of dismantling hamas ’ s military and governing capabilities . and israelis fear that time is running out for many of the hostages in gaza . about a third of the 120 that remain have already been declared dead by israeli authorities . at the same time , israel ’ s leadership is grappling with an escalation of hostilities across the northern border with lebanon and battling increasing international isolation and opprobrium over the war in gaza , includingallegations of genocidethat are being heard by the international court of justice in the hague . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement