israel - hamaswar advertisement dozens of other displaced palestinians who had been sheltering nearby were also injured , the officials said . transcript ( child screams ) ( screaming ) byanushka patil an israeli strike outside a hospital in rafah , in southern gaza , on saturday killed at least 11 people and injured dozens of other displaced palestinians , including children , who were sheltering in tents nearby , the gaza health ministry said . at least two health care workers , including a paramedic , were among those killed after the strike near the gate of the emirati maternity hospital , the health ministry said . photos taken by news agencies showed colleagues of the paramedic , whom the health ministry identified as abdul fattah abu marai , taking his body to the nearby kuwaiti hospital , as well as injured children lying on stretchers , as other children looked on and cried . the israeli military said later saturday that , with help from israel ’ s domestic security agency , it had carried out a “ precision strike ” against “ islamic jihad terrorists ” near the hospital . the military declined to respond to reports that the strike had injured children . the israeli military had previously declared that rafah , gaza ’ s southernmost city , would be a safe zone for civilians , and more than half of the enclave ’ s entire population is now crammed into it , with many living in makeshift tents over nearly every inch of available space . butairstrikes on rafahhave continued even as the number of people sheltering there has swelled to around 1 . 5 million . prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel hasvowed that his forces will invade the citywhether or not a temporary cease - fire deal is reached , despite dire warnings from humanitarian groups and many of israel ’ s allies that any military operation in rafah would have catastrophic consequences for civilians . the news of saturday ’ s strike was “ outrageous and unspeakable ,” the leader of the world health organization , tedros adhanom ghebreyesus , said on social media , reiterating calls for a cease - fire and for the protection of health care workers and civilians . the victims of the strike were sheltering near the emirati maternity hospital , one of the last hospitals still functioning in gaza . despite having only five beds remaining for women giving birth , the hospital is managing more than half of the estimated 180 births happening daily in the enclave , said dominic allen , the state of palestine representative for the united nations population fund , a sexual and reproductive health agency known as u . n . f . p . a . the emirati hospital is essentially “ the last hope for pregnant women in the whole of gaza ,” mr . allen said . a strike so close to the hospital poses a “ terrifying ” risk to pregnant women , newborns and the overloaded health care workers trying to care for them , he added . anushka patil is a reporter covering live news . she joined the times in 2019 . more about anushka patil advertisement