israel - hamaswar advertisement the iran - backed militia has launched dozens of attacks on shipping vessels in the vital sea route in support of palestinians in gaza . byanjana sankar yemen ’ s houthi rebels attacked a merchant ship in the red sea on wednesdayin the latest escalation of the iran - backed militia ’ s campaign against shipping in support of palestinians in the gaza strip . a british government maritime agency said the vessel was “ hit on the stern by a small craft ” about 66 nautical miles southwest of the houthi - held port of hodeida in yemen . after the attack , the ship was “ taking on water , and not under command of the crew ,” the agency , the united kingdom maritime trade operations , said in a statement on its website . the statement said the ship ’ s master had reported it was also “ hit for a second time by an unknown airborne projectile .” a houthi military spokesman , yahya saree , said in a televised speech that the group had used unmanned surface boats , a number of drones and ballistic missiles to target the ship , which he identified as the tutor , a greek - owned bulk carrier . he claimed the ship was seriously damaged and could sink . on wednesday , the houthis said they launched two joint military operations with the islamic resistance in iraq , on the israeli cities ashdod and haifa , a claim israel denied . since november , the houthis have launched dozens of attacks on ships in the vital sea route in the red sea and gulf of aden , stifling global maritime trade . in retaliation , the u . s . and british navies have been intensifying airstrikes against houthi targets , the latest coming on june 7after the rebel group detained 11 united nations employees in yemen . the u . s . central command said its forces had destroyed four aerial drones and two anti - ship missiles in houthi - controlled areas of yemen last friday , as well as a houthi patrol boat in the red sea . in february , american military officials said the united states struck five houthi military targets , including an undersea drone they described as an “ unmanned underwater vessel ” that they believed the houthis could have received from iran . advertisement