advertisement supported by the policy could ease pressure on the school to issue statements on current events . officials were criticized for their handling of the oct . 7 hamas attacks . byvimal patelandanemona hartocollis harvard said on tuesday that it would now avoid taking positions on matters that are not “ relevant to the core function of the university ,” accepting the recommendations of a faculty committee that urged the university to dramatically reduce its messages on issues of the day . if put into practice , harvard would no longer issue official statements of empathy , which it did for ukraine , after the russian invasion , and for the victims of the oct . 7 hamas attacks in israel , for example . “ in issuing official statements of empathy , the university runs the risk of appearing to care more about some places and events than others ,” the report said . “ and because few , if any , world events can be entirely isolated from conflicting viewpoints , issuing official empathy statements runs the risk of alienating some members of the community by expressing implicit solidarity with others .” the university ’ s institutional voice working group , made up of eight faculty members , issued the report , with a set of principles and a recommended path forward , which the administration and governing board accepted . “ harvard isn ’ t a government ,” noah feldman , a harvard law professor and a co - chair of the committee that developed the recommendations , said inan interview with the harvard gazette , released tuesday as part of the university ’ s announcement . “ it shouldn ’ t have a foreign policy or a domestic policy .” the report , however , did not fully embrace “ institutional neutrality ” — a principle promoted by the university of chicago , in which universities commit to staying out of political and social matters . some universities , including stanford university and northwestern , announced shortly after the hamas attack that they would adopt the policy . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement