advertisement the leaders of northwestern , rutgers and the university of california , los angeles , appeared to have navigated their testimony before congress without many significant missteps . byjacey fortin the leaders of three universities denied that their campuses have become “ hotbeds of antisemitism ,” as one house republican described them in a congressional hearing on thursday . but they acknowledged missteps in the handling of the pro - palestinian demonstrations that have engulfed american universities in recent months , and said that some acts of hostility toward jewish students need to be addressed . the hearing grew heated at times , especially as republicans accused the leaders of northwestern and rutgers of “ giving in ” to demonstrators . but for the most part , the presidents of the two schools , as well as the chancellor of the university of california , los angeles , appeared to fare better than other university leaders who have testified before the same committee since the oct . 7 hamas - led attack on israel . although they got caught up in some testy exchanges and seemed to dodge a few questions , the leaders appeared to have navigated their testimony on thursday without many significant missteps . their responses were at times considered , and at other times combative . they pointed to the challenges of balancing student safety with free speech — especially at rutgers and u . c . l . a ., which are both public universities that must abide by the first amendment — and they condemned episodes of antisemitism on campus . here are five takeaways from the hearing . the presidents of rutgers and northwestern said that the goal of striking deals with pro - palestinian protesters had been to end the encampments and restore safety for all students , including jewish students who found the demonstrations threatening . coming to agreements with the demonstrators had made that possible , they said — and noted that they had done it without committing to divesting from israel , as students had demanded . “ we had to get the encampment down ,” said michael schill , the president of northwestern university , adding that he had sought to avoid police intervention on campus — a decision that many of his peers have made , leading to nearly 3 , 000 arrests at universities since april 18 . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement