advertisement supported by the president , sian leah beilock , called in the police just hours after a pro - palestinian encampment went up on campus . a bystander and a professor were injured . bystephanie saul the faculty of arts and sciences at dartmouth college voted on monday to censure the university ’ s president , sian leah beilock , over her decision to summon the police to remove a pro - palestinian encampment on campus , calling her action harmful to the community and disruptive to the university ’ s educational mission . the censure motion was adopted by a vote of 183 to 163 , according to justin anderson , a spokesman for dartmouth . the close vote illustrated the division on campus over dr . beilock ’ s decision on may 1 , made just hours after the encampment had been erected on the college green . at the meeting , dr . beilock defended her actions , saying that she believed there was a reasonable and credible threat of violence . monday ’ s vote was believed to be the first censure vote against a president of dartmouth in its 255 - year history . in a statement , the university noted that a censure vote had no practical effect . and the chair of dartmouth ’ s board , liz lempres , applauded dr . beilock for her “ strong leadership ” in nearly impossible circumstances . “ the board unequivocally and unanimously supports president beilock ,” she said in a statement . eighty - nine people were arrested , including two faculty members , as the police moved in to clear the encampment this month . one faculty member , annelise orleck , a labor historian , was knocked to the groundas she tried to grab her phone from a police officer . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement