israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the gbu - 39 is increasingly the weapon of choice for the israeli military and was used in two recent mass - casualty events . bylara jakes lara jakes writes about weapons and military aid to conflict zones . an american - made , precision guided bomb that homes in on specific targets and , ideally , limits civilian casualties , was used in airstrikes in gaza that killed dozens of palestinians , including women and children . the weapon , the gbu - 39 , or small - diameter bomb , was used in an attackat a former united nations school on thursday and in amay 26 strike in rafah . in both cases , the israeli military defended its actions , saying the strikes were aimed at militants using civilians as human shields . the gaza health authorities said that civilians had also been killed , and there were videos and pictures of women and children among the dead . two weapons experts told the new york times that israel has appeared to increase the use of the bombs since the start of this year , compared with the war ’ s earliest days , when it launched them in only 10 percent of airstrikes against gaza . as a recent spate of israeli strikes demonstrates , even a relatively diminutive bomb can inflict severe civilian casualties . “ the thing is , even using a smaller weapon , or using a precision guided weapon , doesn ’ t mean you don ’ t kill civilians , and it doesn ’ t mean that all of your strikes are suddenly lawful ,” said brian castner , a weapons expert at amnesty international . early in the war , the israeli military mounted full - scale invasions of gazan cities with tanks , artillery and 2 , 000 - pound bombs , earning it international condemnation for heavy civilian casualties . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement