israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by u . s . officials said that a temporary port , built from ships and then moved close to shore , would allow hundreds of truckloads of aid to reach gazans on the brink of starvation . bydavid e . sanger , michael d . shearandthomas fuller facing warnings that the war - ravaged gaza strip is on the precipice of widespread famine , the united states on thursday announced plans for a large - scale , amphibious military operation in the mediterranean sea that would ferry food and other aid to desperate civilians in the enclave . u . s . officials sketched out the plan , which would make the united states more directly involved in delivering aid , hours before president biden was scheduled to give his state of the union address on thursday evening . details for what they described as a floating pier off gaza would be included in the speech , the officials said . the white house called it an “ emergency mission ” that would allow hundreds of truckloads of additional aid to be delivered to gaza via the temporary port , which would be attached to some kind of temporary causeway . briefing reporters , officials said it could take more than 30 to 60 days to implement , and involve hundreds or thousands of u . s . troops on ships just off shore , in keeping with mr . biden ’ s mandate that no american soldiers be on the ground inside gaza as the conflict rages . the port would be constructed in cooperation with other countries in the region , the officials said . american officials said that they had “ worked closely ” with israelis as they developed the seaport initiative , but they did not specify whether israel would provide direct assistance or support for its construction or operation . shani sasson , a spokeswoman for cogat , the israeli agency which regulates aid to palestinians in gaza , did not respond to a request for comment . one israeli official , speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss diplomatic negotiations , said that under the latest plan , aid donated by the united arab emirates would be sent to cyprus , where it would eventually be inspected , then transported by ship to the coast of gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement