israel - hamaswar advertisement officials say hamas has continued to press israel for a commitment to a permanent cease - fire after a multistage release of all hostages , but israel has refused . byronen bergman , edward wongandjulian e . barnes ronen bergman and edward wong reported from istanbul , and julian barnes from washington . talks between israel and hamas over the release of dozens of israeli hostages held in gaza have stalled , dimming hopes that a deal could be reached before ramadan begins in a few days , according to several people briefed on the conversations . negotiators had beendiscussing a proposalfor an initial six - week cease - fire during which hamas would release about 40 people — including women , elderly and ill hostages , and five female israeli soldiers — for a substantial number of palestinian prisoners . the discussions included terms for releasing at least 15 prisoners convicted of serious acts of terrorism who would be exchanged for the female soldiers . the terms also said israel would release hundreds of other detainees or prisoners , at an average of 10 palestinians for every israeli civilian freed , officials said . american officials had said that they hoped to reach an agreement to release some hostages and put in place a temporary pause in fighting before ramadan , which is expected to start this sunday . president biden expressed confidence last week that a deal was within reach . but in recent days , hamas has backed away from the proposed agreement and made demands that israel refuses to meet , according to officials briefed on the talks . the negotiations had been taking place in doha , qatar , before they moved to cairo in recent days . john f . kirby , a national security council spokesman , said on wednesday that while the united states was disappointed that an agreement had not been reached , negotiators were still confident in the parameters of the deal they had helped negotiate . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement