israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the demonstration included ringing the white house grounds with a red banner showing the names of the more than 36 , 000 palestinians killed during the war . transcript protesters : “ forty thousand people dead .” “ joe biden , your hands are red .” [ cheering ] “ we will free palestine .” “ we will free palestine .” byminho kim reporting from washington editor ’ s note : this article was updated on june 10 with a statement from the national park service . thousands of pro - palestinian protesters in washington converged around the white house on saturday , urging president biden to stop all military aid to israel and calling for an immediate cease - fire in israel ’ s war in gaza . holding signs calling mr . biden a liar , the protesters , mostly clad in red and bearing palestinian flags , marched around the block of parkland where the white house sits . they spilled across two six - lane boulevards , pushing out tourists , whose faces showed variations of confusion , anger or intrigue . the police presence was heavy , and the u . s . park police used pepper spray against a protester at least once . mr . biden was not at the white house but in france , where he joined president emmanuel macron for a state dinner in paris on saturday night . but the dissenting voices in the american capital highlighted the challenges he faces domestically as he tries to carve out a narrow position that both supports israel ’ s right to defend itself against hamas and calls for a quick cessation of hostilities . the pro - palestinian activists outside the white house , who were highly critical of the biden administration ’ s response to the war , encouraged a key portion of mr . biden ’ s base — young and nonwhite voters — to reconsider their support for the president ahead of the election this fall . “ there is no world in which i can confidently vote for ” mr . biden , said nas issa , a spokeswoman for the palestinian youth movement , one of the left - leaning groups that organized saturday ’ s protest . if mr . biden “ doesn ’ t change course and hold netanyahu and the israeli government at large to account , under what circumstances would it be acceptable to any person of conscience to vote for him ?” she added , referring to prime minister benjamin netanyahu of israel . on saturday afternoon , some protesters created a ring along the mile - long white house perimeter , unspooling consecutive lengths of red paper on which names of the more than 36 , 000 palestinians who had been killed during the war were written . the others marched along the perimeter . the format was intended to evoke a red line that , if crossed by the israeli military in gaza , would cause mr . biden towithhold weapons shipments to israel . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement