israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by a pro - palestinian group slashed and spray - painted a century - old portrait of the author of the balfour declaration at the university of cambridge in england . bymarc tracy a pro - palestinian group slashed and spray - painteda century - old portrait of arthur james balfourat the university of cambridge on friday , defacing a painting of the british official whose pledge of support in 1917 for “ the establishment in palestine of a national home for the jewish people ” helped pave the way to israel ’ s founding three decades later . the group , palestine action , said in a statementthat the destruction of the portrait in trinity college , cambridge , was intended to call attention to “ the bloodshed of the palestinian people since the balfour declaration was issued ,” particularly in light of the current conflict in gaza . a spokeswoman for trinity , whose alumni include king charles iii as well as balfour himself , said in a statement on friday that the college “ regrets the damage caused to a portrait of arthur james balfour during public opening hours ” and that it had notified the police . a cambridge police statement said officers were on the scene to investigate a report of “ criminal damage .” palestine action posted a video of a protester first spraying the portrait , painted in 1914 by philip alexius de lászló , with red paint and then slashing it with a sharp object . the group ’ s statement said balfour had given away the homeland of the palestinians — “ a land that wasn ’ t his to give away ” — touching off what it described as decades of oppression . since oct . 7 , when hamas militants invading southern israelkilled approximately 1 , 200 peopleand abducted 240 others , israeli bombings and invasions havekilled more than 30 , 000 people , according to gaza health officials . defacing art has become a popular protest tacticin recent years . it is perhaps most closely associated with environmentalists , who have targeted paintings by van gogh , vermeer and monet . this year , two women from an environmental group entered the louvre andflung soup at the mona lisa . most of the paintings that have been targeted were covered or protected in some way , andvery few were damaged . in recent weeks , pro - palestinian protesters have targeted art in new york . this week , a few dozen demonstrators disrupted the opening of an israeli artist ’ s show at a manhattan gallery , hyperallergic reported . last month , protestersinterrupted a conversationfeaturing an israeli artist whose drawings depicting oct . 7 are being exhibited at the jewish museum anddozens chanted “ free palestine ” in a demonstration at the museum of modern art . marc tracyis a times reporter covering arts and culture . he is based in new york . more about marc tracy advertisement