israel - hamaswar advertisement president biden outlined a road map put forward by israel that would begin with an immediate , temporary cease - fire and work toward a permanent end to the war and the reconstruction of gaza . byjesus jiménezandaaron boxerman president biden on fridayoutlined a road mapput forward by israel that would begin with an immediate , temporary cease - fire and work toward a permanent end to the war and the reconstruction of gaza . here are some of the details , as described by mr . biden , a senior u . s . administration official who briefed reporters after the president spoke and israeli officials who have discussed the possible deal . both sides would observe a six - week cease - fire . israel would withdraw from major population centers in gaza , and a number of hostages would be released , including women , the elderly and the wounded . the hostages would be exchanged for the release of hundreds of palestinian detainees . aid would begin flowing into gaza , working up to some 600 trucks a day . hundreds of thousands of displaced palestinian civilians would also be allowed to return to their homes in northern gaza . most palestinians fled the north following israel ’ s mass evacuation order before the ground invasion began . during the first phase , israel and hamas would continue to negotiate to reach a permanent cease - fire . if the talks take more than six weeks , the first phase of the truce will continue until they reach a deal , mr . biden said . with a permanent cease - fire , israel would withdraw completely from gaza . all the remaining living israeli hostages would be released , including male soldiers , and more palestinian prisoners would be released in exchange . it was also unclear who would govern the territory under the agreement . hamas could use a cease - fire to reconstitute its rule in gaza . in the past , the united states has said that the palestinian authority , which has struggled to run the west bank , ought to be brought in to run gaza . israeli officials , including mr . netanyahu , have generally rejected either the palestinian authority or hamas running gaza . hamas would return the remains of hostages who had died . rubble would be cleared and a three - to five - year reconstruction period would begin , backed by the united states , europe and international institutions . jesus jiménez covers breaking news , online trends and other subjects . he is based in new york city . more about jesus jiménez aaron boxermanis a times reporting fellow with a focus on international news . more about aaron boxerman advertisement