israel - hamaswar advertisement the bodies were found in jabaliya , where the israeli military has been trying to root out a renewed hamas insurgency . byaaron boxermanandjohnatan reiss israeli forces retrieved the bodies of three oct . 7 hamas attack victims in an overnight operation in northern gaza , the israeli military said on friday , further heightening fears for the fate of the remaining hostages held in gaza . israeli officials identified the three hostages as hanan yablonka , 42 ; michel nisenbaum , 59 ; and orion hernandez radoux , a dual citizen of france and mexico . according to rear adm . daniel hagari , the israeli military spokesman , all three were killed in the hamas - led oct . 7 attack , and hamas militants brought their bodies back to gaza . roughly 125 living and dead hostages now remain in gaza , according to the israeli authorities , as talks for a cease - fire that would also secure their release have stalled . israel and hamas have conducted indirect negotiations for months in an attempt to clinch an agreement , but those talks collapsed in early may . on thursday , the israeli prime minister ’ s office said the war cabinet had ordered its negotiating team tocontinue talks to reach a deal , but prospects appeared remote as israel pursues its operation in rafah , in southern gaza . the israeli government has faced rising criticism by some of the hostages ’ family members , who say it has not gone far enough to reach an agreement . “ the recovery of their bodies is a silent but resolute reminder that the state of israel is obligated to immediately dispatch negotiation teams with a clear demand to bring about a deal that will swiftly return all the hostages home ,” said the hostages families forum , a group that represents family members of the captives . over the past week , a total of seven bodieshave been brought back to israelfor burial after being retrieved by israeli soldiers and intelligence officers . they included shani louk , mr . radoux ’ s partner , an israeli - german dual citizen who became a symbol of the brutality of the hamas attack . most of the seven hostages brought back had not been publicly declared presumed dead by the israeli authorities . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement