israel - hamaswar advertisement the president said that the united states would work with jordan and other allies to deliver aid by air and that supplies could eventually be delivered by sea . byjulian e . barnesandzolan kanno - youngs reporting from washington president biden said on friday that the united states would begin airdropping humanitarian relief supplies into gaza , a decision prompted bythe dozens of palestinians who were killed as israeli forces opened firenear an aid convoy in gaza city a day earlier . “ innocent people got caught in a terrible war unable to feed their families , and you saw the response when they tried to get aid in ,” mr . biden said before meeting with prime minister giorgia meloni of italy . “ and we need to do more , and the united states will do more .” mr . biden said that the united states would work with jordan , which has been at the forefront of airdrop efforts to gaza , as well as other allies to deliver aid by air and that supplies could , eventually , also be delivered by sea . “ aid flowing to gaza is nowhere nearly enough now ,” mr . biden said . “ innocent lives are on the line , and children ’ s lives are on the line .” mr . biden and ms . meloni discussed efforts to prevent the war in gaza from becoming a larger conflict , as well as support for ukraine and steps to address human trafficking and global migration . john f . kirby , a senior national security council official , said that the first airdrops would focus on food , followed by water and medicine . a u . s . military official said the air force plans to drop 50 , 000 meal rations . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement