israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by it was one of four convoys put together by local palestinian businessmen this week at the behest of israeli officials , who promised to provide security . byaaron boxerman , adam rasgonandandy newman the gaza aid convoy that ended in bloodshed this weekwas organized by israel itselfas part of a newly hatched partnership with local palestinian businessmen , according to israeli officials , palestinian businessmen and western diplomats . israel has been involved in at least four such aid convoys to northern gaza over the past week . it undertook the effort , israeli officials told two western diplomats , to fill a void in assistance to northern gaza , where famine looms as international aid groups have suspended most operations , citing israeli refusals to greenlight aid trucks and rising lawlessness . the diplomats spoke on condition of anonymity given the sensitivity of the matter . israeli officials reached out to multiple gazan businessmen and asked them to help organize private aid convoys to the north , two of the businessmen said , while israel would provide security . theunited nations has warnedthat more than 570 , 000 gazans — particularly in northern gaza — are facing “ catastrophic levels of deprivation and starvation ” after nearly five months of war and an almost complete israeli blockade of the territory following the oct . 7 attacks led by hamas . some residents have resorted to raiding the pantries of neighbors who fled their homes , while others have been grinding up animal feed for flour . u . n . aid convoys carrying essential goods to northern gaza have been looted — either by civilians fearing starvation or organized gangs — amid the anarchy that has followed israel ’ s ground invasion . “ my family , friends , and neighbors are dying from hunger ,” said jawdat khoudary , a palestinian businessman who helped organize some of the trucks involved in the israeli relief initiative . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement