israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by aid officials and health experts expect famine this month unless israel lifts barriers to aid , the fighting stops and vital services are restored . byvivian yee , bilal shbairandmatthew mpoke bigg for weeks , the gaza strip ’ s southernmost city , rafah , was one of the few places where desperate gazans could find some aid and food . bakeries sold bread ; fuel powered generators ; markets were open , if expensive . but since israeli forces began an incursion in the city this month — effectively closing the two main crossings where aid enters — rafah has become a place of fear and dwindling supplies . bakeries have shuttered . so have malnutrition treatment centers . the price of the firewood that many people now use to cook has doubled . tomatoes , cucumbers and peppers have grown so expensive that they are sold by the piece , not by the kilogram . families hide what canned goods they still have . they eye their emptying sacks of flour , calculating how long they will last . “ there ’ s always something missing in the tent ,” said ahmed abu al - kas , 51 , who is sheltering in rafah with his family . “ if we have bread , we don ’ t have water . if we have firewood , we don ’ t have some basic vegetables .” for months , international aid officials and health experts have warned that famine will come for gaza unless israel lifts barriers keeping most humanitarian aid out , the fighting stops and vital services such as health care and clean water , which must be in place to fend off malnutrition , are restored . none of those conditions have been met . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement