advertisement supported by an orange county judge halted the labor action by academic workers after the university system said the walkout was causing students “ irreparable harm .” byshawn hubler reporting from sacramento a strike by university of california academic workers over the treatment of pro - palestinian demonstrators was temporarily halted by a southern california judge on friday after the university argued the walkout was causing students “ irreparable harm .” the temporary restraining order , issued by judge randall j . sherman of the orange county superior court , came as tens of thousands of u . c . students were preparing for finals at the end of the spring quarter . the judge ’ s order came in response to the third attempt by the public university system to force thousands of unionized teaching assistants , tutors , researchers and other key workers back to work . workers represented by united auto workers local 4811walked off the job may 20 at u . c . santa cruzand thenextended the rolling striketo campusesat davis , los angeles , irvine , san diego and santa barbara . the union represents about 48 , 000 graduate students and other academic workers across the u . c . system , which encompasses 10 universities and the lawrence berkeley national laboratory . the academic workers have contended , among various charges , that the university of california ’ s response to demonstrations over the israel - hamas war has amounted to a unilateral change in free speech policies and has created an unsafe work environment . the university system has said that the strike is not about working conditions , but rather an attempt to force u . c . institutions to take a position on a political issue . university leaders have twice asked the state public employment relations board , which normally oversees public sector labor issues , to declare the union ’ s action unlawful . the board found both times that the university ’ s claims did not meet the legal threshold required to block the strike . the university asked for injunctive relief on tuesday and sued the union for breach of contract , charging that the workers had violated no - strike clauses in their collective bargaining agreements . in a separate filing , the state labor board noted that it was already examining that issue and questioned whether the orange county superior court — whose jurisdiction includes irvine , the site of one of the walkouts — was the appropriate forum for the university to seek relief . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement