israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by news analysis the israeli prime minister is likely to become more dependent on the right - wing partners in his coalition government after the centrist benny gantz and his party pulled out of it . byisabel kershner reporting from jerusalem still fighting israel ’ s outside enemies on multiple fronts , prime minister benjamin netanyahu woke up on monday to a new political battlefield at home . thedeparturethis weekend of benny gantz and his centrist national unity party from israel ’ s emergency wartime government is unlikely to immediately sever mr . netanyahu ’ s grip on power . the prime minister ’ s governing coalition still commands a narrow majority of 64 seats in the 120 - seat parliament . but mr . gantz ’ s move means that mr . netanyahu is now totally dependent on his far - right and ultra - orthodox coalition partners as he prosecutes the war in gaza in the face ofmounting international opprobrium , leaving him increasingly isolated and exposed at home and abroad . mr . gantz and gadi eisenkot , another powerful member of national unity , also leftmr . netanyahu ’ s small war cabinet . they are both former military chiefs who were widely viewed as key voices of moderation in the five - member body , which was formed in october after the hamas - led assault on israel prompted the israeli bombardment and ground invasion of gaza . the two centrist politicians raised public confidence in the government ’ s decision - making at a time of national trauma . they also lent the war cabinet an aura of legitimacy and consensus as israel fought hamas in gaza , as well as its archenemy iran and its other proxies , including the powerful hezbollah militia across israel ’ s northern border with lebanon . mr . gantz accused mr . netanyahu of “ political procrastination ,” suggesting that he had been putting off critical strategic decisions to ensure his political survival . his decision to quit the wartime government ushers in a new period of political instability and has left many israelis wondering where the country goes from here . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement