israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by a cease - fire plan described by president biden has stirred cautious optimism after nearly eight months of war in the gaza strip . bybilal shbair , hiba yazbek , adam rasgonandmichael levenson bilal shbair reported from the central gaza strip . after eight months of devastating bombardment by israeli forces , some gazans are urging hamas to accept a cease - fire plan outlined by president biden , but many remain deeply skeptical that the united states , as israel ’ s chief ally , would truly bring an end to the war . “ i am hopeful that hamas will accept this deal ,” said ayman skeik , a 31 - year - old merchant driven out of his home in gaza city by the fighting . “ but i am still scared it would not be achieved .” like other gazans , mr . skeik , who is now sheltering in deir al - balah in central gaza , said he had grown frustrated by the long and generally fruitless cease - fire talks . he noted pointedly that months ago , in february , mr . biden suggestedthat a deal was imminent . “ the united states used to have a strong word when it wanted to stop any crisis in the world ,” mr . skeik said . “ but nowadays , i see a different thing .” speaking at the white house on friday , mr . biden said that hamas was no longer capable of carrying out a major terrorist attack on israel like the one on oct . 7 and that it was “ time to end this war .” he described what he said was a three - phase israeli plan submitted to hamas last week that would secure the release of the remaining hostages seized on oct . 7 and ultimately lead to the “ cessation of hostilities permanently ” and the rebuilding of gaza . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement