advertisement supported by the official , christine abizaid , recently warned that the hamas attacks in israel , and the gaza conflict , had energized terrorist threats worldwide . byeric schmitt reporting from washington the director of the national counterterrorism center will step down next month , biden administration officials said on wednesday . the director , christine s . abizaid , has served three years as the country ’ s top counterterrorism official . in recent years , a resurgent china and russia , as well as the wars in ukraine and in gaza , have replaced counterterrorism as the country ’ s main national security priorities . but speaking to asecurity conferencein doha , qatar , last month , ms . abizaid warned that the hamas attacks against israel on oct . 7 , and the ensuing gaza conflict , had energized an increasingly diverse set of worldwide terrorist threats . the islamic state no longer controls vast swaths of territory in iraq and syria , but its fighters and groups aligned with al qaeda are on the march in africa . the islamic state affiliate in afghanistan , isis khorasan , dramatically demonstrated its expanding reach earlier this year , conducting deadly attacks iniranandrussia . in addition to supporting hamas in gaza , iran backs extremist groups in lebanon , syria , iraq and yemen . “ we are in an elevated global threat environment ,” ms . abizaid said at the conference . ms . abizaid , 45 , had previously served as a senior counterterrorism official at the white house and as a senior pentagon official for southwest asia policy before taking over the counterterrorism center in june 2021 . the counterterrorism center , created in the wake of the attacks on sept . 11 , 2001 , integrates , analyzes and shares counterterrorism information to address threats . “ christy abizaid is an extraordinary leader who is not only incredibly effective but principled , courageous and kind ,” avril d . haines , the director of national intelligence , said in a statement . ms . abizaid started her government career as a counterterrorism intelligence analyst at the defense intelligence agency , specializing in afghanistan and pakistan , as well as the middle east , and including a tour as the agency ’ s senior representative in iraq . she is the daughter of john p . abizaid , a retired army general who formerly led the pentagon ’ s central command , overseeing military operations in the middle east and parts of asia . “ christy has played an indispensable role in driving the counterterrorism enterprise for the u . s . government even as other high - priority national security challenges draw resources and attention ,” said nicholas j . rasmussen , a former director of the counterterrorism center who is now at the homeland security department . brett m . holmgren , the assistant secretary of state for intelligence and research , will serve as the acting director of the counterterrorism center when ms . abizaid departs in mid - july , administration officials said . eric schmittis a national security correspondent for the times , focusing on u . s . military affairs and counterterrorism issues overseas , topics he has reported on for more than three decades . more about eric schmitt advertisement