israel - hamaswar advertisement in a white house meeting on monday afternoon with benny gantz , a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , the vice president also focused on the need for a deal to free hostages . bymichael d . shear , zolan kanno - youngsanderica l . green reporting from washington vice president kamala harris , who has emerged as one of the leading voices for palestinians in closed - door meetings , pressed for a pause in fighting in gaza with a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , benny gantz , at the white house on monday afternoon , according to the white house . the vice president emphasized the urgency of securing a hostage deal and reducing the humanitarian crisis that has unfolded alongside israel ’ s war against hamas in response to attacks on oct . 7 . she praised israel ’ s “ constructive approach ” to seeking a six - week cease - fire but urged the government to do more to allow desperately needed humanitarian aid to reach those in need in gaza . “ the vice president expressed her deep concern about the humanitarian conditions in gaza and the recent horrific tragedy around an aid convoy in northern gaza ,” a white house description of the meeting said . it added that “ she urged israel to take additional measures in cooperation with the united states and international partners to increase the flow of humanitarian assistance into gaza .” the meeting came as the united states said it would continueairdrops of foodthat began on saturday in an effort to confront what humanitarian groups say is a crisis for the more than one million displaced palestinians in rafah , in southern gaza , as israel prepares to deploy ground forces there . although ms . harris has not strayed too far from president biden ’ s war message , in a speech on sunday she took a tougher tone in demanding an “ immediate cease - fire .” still , she directed her remarks at hamas , not israel ’ s leadership , and repeated that she and the president remained “ unwavering in our commitment to israel ’ s security .” in meetings at the white house , she has been forceful in urging the administration not to dismiss the anger from palestinian americans and others in the united states , who contend that mr . biden has not done enough to prevent the deaths of tens of thousands of civilians in gaza , according to four people familiar with the matter . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement