israel - hamaswar advertisement the announcement adds to the pressure the president is facing on the issue from leaders in the black community , a group that is key to his re - election . byerica l . green reporting from washington the n . a . a . c . p ., the oldest and largest civil rights group in the nation , called on thursday for president biden to “ draw the red line ” and halt weapons shipments to israel over the mounting civilian death toll in its war in gaza . in a rare foray into foreign policy , the influential organization added to the mounting pressure from black leaders on mr . biden to stop aiding israel ’ s war in gaza . its warning comes as mr . biden tries to shore up softening support among black americans , a constituency that was crucial in catapulting him to the white house in 2020 and that he will need to win his re - election bid in november . inits statement , the n . a . a . c . p . called on mr . biden to “ draw the red line and indefinitely end the shipment of weapons and artillery ” to israel and any states that supply weapons to terrorist organizations , including hamas . “ the middle east conflict will only be resolved when the u . s . government and international community take action , including limiting access to weapons used against civilians ,” the statement said . the n . a . a . c . p .’ s announcement came the same day thatan israeli airstrikein central gaza killed dozens of people at a united nations school complex that had become a shelter for thousands of displaced palestinians . it tightens the political bind mr . biden finds himself in as he pushes for a cease - fire to end the war while continuing to provide support for a longtime u . s . ally . he has recently withheld some offensive weapons from israel and has threatened to hold back more , but has also made clear that he will continue to supply defense systems and arms that aid in israel ’ s “ ability to respond to attacks ” like one iranlaunched in april . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement