advertisement supported by the two presidents , in a brief appearance before reporters , declined to take questions , in a departure from tradition . bymichael d . shearandpeter baker reporting from paris president biden and president emmanuel macron of france stressed on saturday how much they agreed with each other about world affairs , including the war in ukraine , even as their countries have expressed sharply different views of the fighting in gaza between israel and hamas . appearing briefly together in front of reporters after two days of d - day remembrances and hours before a lavish state dinner at the élysée palace in paris , the two presidents declined to take any questions and papered over their stark differences about the middle east . instead , they both asserted the enduring strength of the american - french partnership on climate , the economy , european security and cultural ties . “ today , i proudly stand with france to support freedom and democracy around the world ,” mr . biden said , as the two men emerged from a closed - door meeting at the élysée palace . “ we see eye to eye on this war raging in ukraine ,” mr . macron noted , and he added that he hoped “ all members of the g7 will agree to a $ 50 billion solidarity fund for ukraine ,” referring to the group of 7 industrialized nations . the french president ’ s comments suggested that the two leaders had reached common ground over a plan to leverage proceeds from frozen russian assets to provide an upfront loan of up to $ 50 billion to ukraine . american officials had said heading into the meeting that france was the main holdout for such a plan and that they were hoping to win support during the paris visit . on gaza , mr . macron noted his government ’ s support for an israeli cease - fire proposal that mr . biden has strongly backed . but the french president also directly challenged israel to do more to deliver aid to palestinians suffering from the government ’ s bombardment . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement