advertisement supported by the republican - written bill , which the white house strongly opposes , stands little chance of becoming law after lawmakers failed to reach a bipartisan deal on penalizing measures . byrobert jimison reporting from the capitol the house voted mostly along party lines on tuesday to impose sweeping sanctions on officials at the international criminal court in a rebuke of efforts by the court ’ s top prosecutor tocharge top israeli leaderswith war crimes in connection with the offensive against hamas . the bill would compel president biden to restrict entry into the united states , revoke visas and impose financial restrictions on anyone at the court involved in trying to investigate , arrest , detain or prosecute “ protected persons ,” or allies of the united states . it would also target anyone who provides “ financial , material or technological support ” to those efforts . mr . biden ’ s advisers said he was “ strongly opposed ” to the measure because it would impose sanctions on such a broad swath of officials , including court staff members and any witnesses involved in a potential case . but it reflected broad bipartisan anger in washington after the court ’ s top prosecutor announced late last month that he wouldseek charges against both israeli and hamas leaders . the g . o . p .- written bill passed by a vote of 247 to 155 , with two republicans voting present and 42 democrats crossing party lines in support . representative chip roy , republican of texas and the author of the bill , said it was a necessary step to stop the international court from acting beyond its jurisdiction and to address fears that actions taken against israeli officials could be a prelude to actions against american officials . “ what happens here is going to be coming at us and our country ,” mr . roy said on tuesday . “ that ’ s why it ’ s important to speak with one voice , with authority , with force .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement