israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by the rescue of four israelis in gaza in a ferocious assault over the weekend offered a glimpse into an ambitious intelligence operation aimed at bringing home those held by hamas . byjulian e . barnes , ronen bergman , eric schmittandadam entous reporting from washington and tel aviv the hostages in gaza are being moved around , with hamas shuttling some from one apartment to another to obscure their whereabouts , while others are believed to be in tunnels underground . all the while , at a “ fusion cell ” quietly formed in israel last fall , american and israeli intelligence and military analysts share imagery from drones and satellites , along with communications intercepts and any other information that comes their way that might offer a hint to the hostages ’ locations . more than one war is being waged in the gaza strip . for the most part , the world sees the airstrikes and the ground invasion , which israel says are aimed at dismantling hamas and have reduced much of the territory to rubble , setting off a humanitarian crisis . butthe rescueon saturday of four hostages was a reminder that israel and hamas are engaged in another , less visible battle : the militants are determined to hold on to the hostages they seized during their deadly oct . 7 attack on israel , for use as human bargaining chips . the israelis are determined to bring them home . for more than eight months , the militants have had the upper hand . israeli and american officials say they do not know where many hostages are being held . and even when they do , in many cases , a rescue mission is simply not possible . to date , israel has rescued a total of seven hostages , but the stark reality is that since the war began , more hostages have died , either in the fighting or at the hands of hamas . israel has recovered far more bodies than living hostages . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement