israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by amid the destruction , a marketplace of survival has arisen focused on the basics : food , shelter and money . byraja abdulrahimandbilal shbair raja abdulrahim reported from jerusalem , and bilal shbair from deir al balah , gaza . on tables and desks from schools turned shelters , wartime vendors lined a street , selling used clothes , baby formula , canned food and the rare batch of homemade cookies . in some cases , entire aid parcels — still emblazoned with the flags of their donating countries and meant to be distributed for free — were stacked on sidewalks and sold for prices few could afford . issam hamouda , 51 , stood next to his paltry commercial offering : an array of canned vegetables and beans from an aid carton his family had received . “ most of the goods found in the markets are labeled , ‘ not for sale ,’” he said . before the israel - hamas war devastated gaza ’ s economy , he was a driving instructor . now , mr . hamouda supports his family of eight the only way he can — by reselling some of the food aid they receive every few weeks . “ once i got four kilos of dried dates and sold a kilo for 8 shekels ,” he said , referring to the israeli currency amounting to roughly $ 2 . in the seven months since israel started bombarding gaza and imposed a siege in response to the oct . 7 hamas - led attack , the enclave ’ s economy has been crushed . people have been forced to flee their homes and jobs . markets , factories and infrastructure have been bombed and flattened . farmland has been scorched by airstrikes or occupied by israeli forces . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement