israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by anti - israel demonstrators gathered outside the exhibition in new york that honors people at a music festival in israel who were killed in the hamas attack . bymarc tracy hundreds of people protested against israel on monday night outside an exhibition in lower manhattan that commemorates the more than 360 people who were killed by hamas on oct . 7 at a rave in southern israel , prompting strong condemnations from public officials . the location of the demonstration — outside an exhibition featuring portraits of the people killed at the tribe of novatrance music festival , along with cars that were charred in the attack and the personal belongings that some music fans left behind — was widely criticized from the city government to washington . mayor eric adams of new york visited the exhibition on tuesday and called the protest “ despicable .” and andrew bates , a white house spokesman , said in a statement tuesday , “ the events at yesterday ’ s memorial to those murdered at the nova music festival are outrageous and heartbreaking .” one of the exhibition ’ s american organizers , scooter braun — a powerful music executive who was instrumental in the rise of justin bieber — said on tuesday that the exhibition , “ october 7th 06 : 29 am — the moment music stood still ,” had been extended a week , until june 22 . “ for those who chose to protest against innocent music lovers who were murdered … we will dance again ,” mr . braun , the chief executive of the music conglomerate hybe america , said in a statement . the protesters gathered monday evening steps away from the new york stock exchange building in lower manhattan , lit flares and repeated shouts including “ long live the intifada ” and “ israel , go to hell ,” according tovideos posted to social media . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement