advertisement supported by “ just because you have the right to say something doesn ’ t mean it ’ s right to say ,” said carol christ , who is retiring as chancellor at the end of this month . bykurt streeter reporting from the university of california , berkeley . waves of boos , angry chants and the steady rhythm of feet pounding on metal seats were upending the graduation ceremony at the university of california , berkeley . “ viva , viva palestina !” students sang out . “ hey , hey , ho , ho , israel ’ s apartheid has got to go !” it was the soundtrack of this year ’ s antiwar protest , voiced on the morning of may 11 by hundreds of cap - and - gowned graduates , loud enough to nearly drown out the ceremony ’ s official speakers — and force the event to halt . one minute passed . two minutes . five . it looked like berkeley ’ s 2024 commencement was about to be canceled midstream . then , suddenly , surprisingly , the ceremony resumed . once it was over and most had left the school ’ s low - slung football stadium , berkeley ’ s chancellor , carol christ , sat near the podium in a folding chair . she is silver - haired and soft - spoken , a soon - to - retire 80 - year - old former english professor with an unusual background for the modern college president : her views on free speech first crystallized during her years as a student protester in the turbulent 1960s . when the demonstrators forced the pause , had she considered ending the event ? “ absolutely not ,” dr . christ said . this is berkeley , she said . “ we were always going to power through . protest is part of our core .” dr . christ ( her name rhymes with “ wrist ”) plans to retire at the end of june . the first woman appointed to the job , she leaves as the oldest chancellor in berkeley history , and one of the oldest leaders of an elite college campus in america . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement