israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by “ the hypocrisy of the hague ,” read the front page of one mainstream daily that has often been critical of israel ’ s prime minister . byisabel kershner reporting from jerusalem if the headlines in israel were anything to go by , the request by the international criminal court ’ s chief prosecutor for anarrest warrant against prime minister benjamin netanyahuseemed to have granted the israeli leader one of the most fortuitous turnarounds in his long and turbulent political career . “ the hypocrisy of the hague ,” blared tuesday ’ s front page of yediot ahronot , a popular mainstream daily that has often been critical of mr . netanyahu . echoing the outrage expressed by israelis across the political spectrum , and abandoning any semblance of impartiality , the front page denounced “ the intolerable gall ” of the chief prosecutor , karim khan , for what it described as putting israel alongside the leaders of hamas who “ seek to annihilate it .” the threat of arrest warrants comes against mr . netanyahu and his defense minister , yoav gallant , as well as three leaders of hamas , on charges of war crimes from the devastating hamas - led attack on israel on oct . 7 and israel ’ s punishing retaliatory campaign in gaza . it appeared to broadly galvanize mr . netanyahu ’ s opposition in his favor . political rivals in israel offered support . american officials , who had been critical of his plan to invade rafah , roundly condemned the i . c . c . action . in the hours and days before , mr . netanyahu had appeared embattled , both domestically and internationally . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement