advertisement supported by critic ’ s notebook commencement is the rare american ritual that still has rules . that ’ s why it ’ s ripe for disruption . byjason farago recycled robes , processional marches , silver pens from tiffany : it is graduation season in america . may brings a nationwide festival of youth , with roots stretching back to before the foundation of the republic , and though many college commencements this month have taken place under police surveillance amid student outcry , the ceremonies have gone on . there are more than three centuries of precedents for graduation rituals — for its dress , for its speeches , and for its disturbances . if commencement is ripe for contestation ( the backs turned on the speaker , the kaffiyeh replacing the pointed sash ), that ’ s because it ’ s one of the very last venues in which americans show a commitment tohowwe do things , and not just what we say and record . i am always a little surprised that universities have hung onto these habits , almost uniquely longstanding . this is a country where very little endures . you can arrive at the met gala half - naked . you can play bach or beyoncé at a funeral . but graduation still has rules . the students graduating from four - year colleges and universities this month began their studies , for the most part , in pandemic year zero . they missed , in 2020 , the walk across the football field or the auditorium stage to collect their high school diploma , and as the war in gaza continues to inflame campuses some are facing disarray again . columbia university , which called in the new york police department to oust pro - palestinian student demonstrators , broke its universitywide commencement into smaller chunks . emory university moved its ceremonies off campus . none has been outright canceled , though . it takes a lot to cancel a graduation . at harvard , wherehundreds of studentswalked out of this year ’ s main ceremony , outbreaks of smallpox meant no commencement in 1752 , 1757 ( theseven years ’ wardidn ’ t help that year ), and 1764 . revolutionary hostilities canceled the commencements of 1774 - 78 and 1780 , but harvard would not miss a commencement again until 2020 . the ceremony took place through the civil war and two world wars , and it went ahead in 1970 , after national guardsmen shot and killed four students at kent state who were protesting the war in vietnam . ( demonstrations did cancel graduation at boston university , hunter college and other schools ; kent state ’ swas scaled down .) in harvard yard that june , graduates protested the war by refusing to don cap and gown , or else by wearing white armbands over their robes . local demonstrators with a bullhorn occupied the dais to demand low - income housing in cambridge . students heard dueling orations that denounced the nixon administration and students for a democratic society . we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement