advertisement supported by with speeches canceled , students at the cuny school of law ceremony chanted , carried signs and walked out . bymaia coleman in some ways , a walkout by pro - palestinian students at the city university of new york school of law ’ s commencement on thursday was part of the unique political moment that has marked the class of 2024 ’ s graduation season at so many universities . but cuny law students were also carrying on something of a graduation tradition at their school . students chanted pro - palestinian messages , waved painted banners as they walked across the stage and turned their backs to the law school ’ s dean , sudha setty , during her remarks onstage at the apollo theater in harlem . then , after the last degrees had been conferred , dozens of students rose from their seats and walked out , joined by a handful of professors and guests . “ it reminded me so much of why i came to cuny law ,” ale humano , one of the graduates who walked out of the ceremony , said . the walkout on thursday is not the first time that tensions over israel have taken center stage during a commencement ceremony for the new york city public law school . the school , which is known for fostering public interest lawyers , has been a hot spot for pro - palestinian activism for years , and its graduation ceremonies have recently become the site of conflict over politics related to israel . for the past two years , law school commencement speakers have made support for palestinians and opposition to israel a focus of their speeches , eliciting criticism from public officials , who called the speeches antisemitic . in 2023 , fatima mousa mohammed , a yemeni immigrant and an activist devoted to the palestinian cause , denounced “ israeli settler colonialism ” in her address . the speech set off furious coverage and a wave of public criticism , including from mayor eric adams , who spoke at the same ceremony and condemned the speech ’ s “ divisiveness .” we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement