advertisement even before the war in gaza brought upheaval to college campuses , the rutgers president was criticized over his response to an instructors ’ strike and approval of a tuition increase . bysharon otterman when jonathan holloway , a scholar of african american history , was appointed as the 21st president of rutgers in 2020 , he said one of his goals was to foster “ a beloved community ,” a university culture defined by tolerance , diversity and the spirited exchange of opinions and ideas . “ if ever there is a time when people need to be authentically listened to , it ’ s now ,” he toldrutgers magazineshortly after taking office . “ so , it ’ s important to me to be graceful . to grant grace .” his goal has been tested ever since . even before the war in gaza brought upheaval to college campuses , dr . holloway was under scrutiny for several unpopular moves . thousands ofinstructors went on strike to demand better pay , leading dr . holloway to threaten a court order to force them back to work . he also approved a tuition increase and removed a popular administrator , thechronicle of higher educationreported . lastseptember , in a symbolic move , the rutgers university senate voted no confidence in his leadership following the months of tumult . the rutgers senate is a democratically elected group of faculty , staff and students ; it does not , however , have the power to remove the president . this spring , dr . holloway decided to strike adealwith pro - palestinian demonstrators to end their four - day encampment at the university ’ s new brunswick campus . some charged that he had rewarded demonstrators after they disrupted campus life and chanted anti - israel slogans that some view as antisemitic . dr . holloway has defended the agreement , even though he acknowledged that “ some of the statements that i have heard are disgraceful and have no place at a university .” “ the result of our actions was a peaceful return to the normal course of business ,” he told the school ’ sboard of governorson may 6 . before becoming rutgers ’ sfirst black president , dr . holloway was provost of northwestern university and a professor of history at yale for nearly two decades . at yale , he also served as dean of yale college . president holloway ’ s scholarly work focuses on african american history after the civil war , and he has published several books . one of his yale courses on african american history is availableonline . sharon ottermanis a times reporter covering higher education , public health and other issues facing new york city . more about sharon otterman advertisement