israel - hamaswar advertisement supported by in an israeli prison infirmary , a jewish dentist came to the aid of a desperately ill hamas inmate . years later , the prisoner became a mastermind of the oct . 7 attack . byjo beckerandadam sella jo becker reported from tel aviv , and adam sella from nir oz , israel . since the early days of the israel - hamas war , they have traced the aftereffects of a fateful encounter between yahya sinwar and dr . yuval bitton . this is how dr . yuval bitton remembers the morning of oct . 7 . being jolted awake just after sunrise by the insistent ringing of his phone . the frantic voice of his daughter , who was traveling abroad , asking , “ dad , what ’ s happened in israel ? turn on the tv .” news anchors were still piecing together the reports : palestinian gunmen penetrating israel ’ s vaunted defenses , infiltrating more than 20 towns and military bases , killing approximately 1 , 200 people and dragging more than 240 men , women and children into gaza as hostages . even in that first moment , dr . bitton says , he knew with certainty who had masterminded the attack : yahya sinwar , the leader of hamas in gaza and inmate no . 7333335 in the israeli prison system from 1989 until his release in a prisoner swap in 2011 . but that was not all . dr . bitton had a history with yahya sinwar . as he watched the images of terror and death flicker across his screen , he was tormented by a decision he had made nearly two decades before — how , working in a prison infirmary , he had come to the aid of a mysteriously and desperately ill mr . sinwar , and how afterward the hamas leader had told him that “ he owed me his life .” the two men had then formed a relationship of sorts , sworn enemies who nevertheless showed a wary mutual respect . as a dentist and later as a senior intelligence officer for the israeli prison service , dr . bitton had spent hundreds of hours talking with and analyzing mr . sinwar , who in the seven months since oct . 7 has eluded israel ’ s forces even as their assault on gaza has killed tens of thousands and turned much of the enclave to rubble . now american officials believemr . sinwar is calling the shotsfor hamas in negotiations over a deal for a cease - fire and the release of some of the hostages . mediterranean sea west bank tel aviv israel jerusalem dead sea gaza city gaza strip nir oz beersheba beersheba prison complex negev desert egypt jordan eilat 20 miles by the new york times we are having trouble retrieving the article content . please enable javascript in your browser settings . thank you for your patience while we verify access . if you are in reader mode please exit andlog intoyour times account , orsubscribefor all of the times . thank you for your patience while we verify access . already a subscriber ? log in . want all of the times ? subscribe . advertisement