spain , ireland and norway have formally recognised a palestinian state , in what they say is an attempt to refocus attention on efforts to find a political solution to the war in the middle east . they hope by acting together they will encourage other european countries to follow suit , in a diplomatic push that could help secure a ceasefire in gaza and the release of hostages held by hamas . the symbolic decision has provoked a furious row with israel ’ s government which has accused all three countries of rewarding terrorism . israel has withdrawn its ambassadors from ireland , norway and spain and formally reprimanded their envoys in tel aviv . all three were summoned to israel ’ s foreign ministry last week to be shown footage of the 7 october attacks in front of the media . the recognition of palestine by the three countries also increases diplomatic pressure on israel after two international courts called for an end to israel defense forces ( idf ) operations in southern gaza and accused prime minister benjamin netanyahu of war crimes . western countries have also stepped up sanctions on israeli settlers in the occupied palestinian territories . the process of diplomatic recognition varies between countries , but normally involves a formal exchange of credentials with the palestinian authority in ramallah . existing consulates or missions in the west bank or east jerusalem then become formal embassies , while representatives transform into full - blown ambassadors . all three countries said they recognised a palestinian state based on borders established before the war in 1967 , with jerusalem as the capital of both israel and palestine . the palestinian flag flew over ireland ’ s parliament as tds set aside four hours to debate the issue . before the cabinet where the formal decision would be made , the taioseach ( prime minister ) simon harris said it was an “ historic and important ” move . he said he hoped other european countries would follow the lead because they had to use every lever at their disposal to encourage a ceasefire . speaking to parliament as the measure was approved , mr harris said : " i hope it sends the palestinian people a message of hope that in this , their darkest hour , ireland stands with them ." it is an expression of our view that palestine holds and should be able to vindicate the full rights of the state , including self - determination , self - governance , territorial integrity and security , as well as recognising palestine ' s own obligations under international law ." as norway ’ s formal recognition came into effect , foreign minister espen barth eide said it was " a special day for norway - palestine relations ". ahead of spain ’ s cabinet meeting , prime minister pedro sánchez said recognising palestine was “ not only a matter of historic justice ”, it was also “ an essential requirement if we are all to achieve peace ”. he insisted that spain was not acting against israel and was standing against hamas which opposed a two - state solution . israel appears most angry with spain . its foreign minister , israel katz , has posted a video on social media showing flamenco dancing and music juxtaposed with explicit images of the 7 october attack , with the words : “ hamas : thank you spain .” spain condemned the post as " scandalous and revolting ". mr katz posted similar videos about ireland and norway . the row deepened when spain ’ s deputy prime minister , yolanda díaz , called publicly for palestinians to be “ free from the river to the sea ”, a controversial phrase which many israelis consider antisemitic and a call for the complete destruction of the state of israel . in a post on x , formerly twitter , mr katz hit back on tuesday , comparing ms díaz to the hamas commander , mohamed sinwar , and iran ’ s supreme leader , ali khamenei . he told mr sánchez that if he did not fire his deputy , “ you are participating in the incitement to commit genocide and war crimes against the jewish people ”. diplomats suspect that israel has responded robustly towards spain , ireland and norway to discourage other countries from following their lead . slovenia , malta and belgium have in recent months indicated they could recognise palestine too . but belgium ’ s government appears to have cooled on the idea ahead of elections . prime minister alexander de croo said he wanted to wait until belgium could recognise palestine alongside major european nations to have greater impact . “ symbolism solves nothing ,” he said . most countries – about 139 in all – formally recognise a palestinian state . on 10 may , 143 out of 193 members of the united nations ’ general assembly voted in favour of a palestinian bid for full un membership , something that is only open to states . palestine currently has a kind of enhanced observer status at the un , which gives it a seat but not a vote in the assembly . it is also recognised by various international organisations including the arab league and the organisation of islamic co - operation . a minority of european countries already recognise a palestinian state . they include former members of the soviet bloc , such as hungary , poland , romania , czechia , slovakia and bulgaria , which adopted the position in 1988 ; and others including sweden and cyprus . but many european countries – and the us - say they will recognise a palestinian state only as part of a long - term political solution to the conflict in the middle east .