us president joe biden ' s national security adviser has urged israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu to connect the war in gaza to a " political strategy " for the territory ' s future . jake sullivan met mr netanyahu in israel after holding talks in saudi arabia on saturday . his intervention comes a day after war cabinet minister benny gantz threatened to quit if mr netanyahu did not come up with a post - war plan for gaza . mr netanyahu has so far not articulated a vision for what comes after the war , saying only that he is focused on " total victory ". however there is a growing political rift in israel over the issue , with mr gantz and defence minister yoav gallant arguing that israel should not maintain military rule in gaza while others , including far - right members of mr netanyahu ' s coalition , say continued control is necessary to defeat hamas . mr sullivan " reaffirmed the need for israel to connect its military operations to a political strategy that can ensure the lasting defeat of hamas , the release of all the hostages , and a better future for gaza ," a white house statement said . the us national security advisor also spoke with mr netanyahu about his talks in saudi arabia and " the potential that may now be available for israel , as well as the palestinian people ". the biden administration has been working on a possible deal that would include saudi - israeli normalisation and a commitment to pursuing a two - state solution for israel and the palestinians - the long - held international formula for peace . meanwhile fighting continues to rage in gaza . the un says about 800 , 000 people , many of whom have been displaced multiple times over seven months of war , have left the southern gaza city of rafah where israel has launched a military operation targeting what it says is hamas ' s last stronghold in gaza . however the israeli military has also launched incursions targeting what it says is a renewed hamas presence in parts of northern gaza that it previously said it had cleared of the armed group . on sunday the hamas - run civil defence agency in gaza said an israeli air strike on the nuseirat refugee camp in central gaza had killed 31 people and wounded 20 . eyewitness yasser abu oula told afp that an entire residential complex " was destroyed " and " there are still bodies under the rubble ". the israel defense forces ( idf ) said it was checking the reports . the idf also said it had struck dozens of targets in gaza including in rafah , and had engaged in fierce battles in jabalia in northern gaza . it said that two soldiers were killed fighting in the south on saturday . the us has long warned israel against conducting a full - scale military incursion into rafah without a plan to protect civilians , which the us says has not been provided . the white house has previously said that it would stop supplying some weapons if israel launches a major ground offensive on the city . however an israeli official told reuters news agency that mr netanyahu and his senior aides would try to reach an agreement with mr sullivan that a full push into rafah was needed . in his intervention , mr gantz set an 8 june deadline for a plan to achieve six " strategic goals ", including the end of hamas rule in gaza and the establishment of a multinational civilian administration for the territory . mr netanyahu dismissed mr gantz ' s comments , saying they would lead to " defeat for israel " and " the establishment of a palestinian state ", which he opposes . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s attack on southern israel last year , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage . more than 35 , 456 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry .