on sunday morning , 25 - year - old aaron bushnell walked calmly up to the israeli embassy in washington , dc and set himself on fire . dressed in his us air force uniform , mr bushnell said he would " no longer be complicit in genocide ". he shouted " free palestine " as he burned , until he collapsed to the ground . hours later , he died in hospital . mr bushnell live - streamed his self - immolation , ensuring that his actions - which he described as an " extreme act of protest " - were seen far beyond washington . though his initial video was removed , the footage was shared widely on social media , and mr bushnell ' s suicide has prompted vigils in us cities this week by those campaigning against israel ' s military actions in gaza . the death toll there passed 30 , 000 this week , according to the hamas - run health ministry . others have expressed concern about the extreme nature of his protest and fears it could inspire other deadly acts . but for mr bushnell ' s friends , his death has hit much closer to home . his self - immolation took even those closest to him completely by surprise and they have found themselves caught between the weight of grieving a friend and processing what he did , while also dealing with the sudden spotlight from the world ' s media . those who knew him in san antonio , texas , where mr bushnell lived from 2020 to late last year while stationed at lackland air force base , said his death had rippled through a community of organisers and activists like a " shockwave ". " initially , there was just a lot of shock and sadness , that he felt this was the only action that he could do to bring attention to something that he cared heavily about ," mason escamilla , who knew mr bushnell , told the bbc on friday before a public vigil held in a san antonio park . " it ' s hard that he chose these actions , it ' s hard to comprehend even from people who sympathise with a ceasefire and the safety of palestinian people and civilians ," mr escamilla , 25 , said . at least 200 people attended the vigil , including many local palestinians . one by one , mr bushnell ' s friends took to the microphone to remember and mourn him . before sunday , mr escamila said he knew mr bushnell as " normal , quiet , friendly , quirky guy ," who drank root beer , embraced leftist politics , and volunteered with groups who helped people experiencing homelessness . the airman had a cat named sugar and liked the lord of the rings , he said . moon , a friend of mr bushnell ' s who asked to be identified only by his first name , met him through volunteer work and described him as " incredibly strong willed ". the video of his final moments , he said , " was very tough to see ." sara masoud , a 32 - year - old palestinian organiser who attended the vigil , said learning the news of his death " was really devastating ." but the shocking act has prompted discussion among activists who feel " a sense of relatability to the futility that drove his action ", she said . mr bushnell had described himself as an anarchist , once writing that he " believed in the abolition of all hierarchal power structures " through legal means . while based in san antonio with the air force , he was also active in number of community and mutual aid groups and gravitated especially towards helping the homeless , his friends said . in initial volunteer outings , delivering supplies like first aid and clothing , mr bushnell was " a little shy ", mr escamilla recalled , but said he soon learned to engage closely with the people he helped . mr escamilla believed mr bushnell felt a tension between his military service and his political beliefs . he was still in the military when the israel - gaza war erupted in october last year . some 1 , 200 people were killed after hamas gunmen attacked communities in southern israel . they took around 250 hostages back into the gaza strip , with many still alive and being held there . about 1 . 8 million palestinians have been displaced since israel launched retaliatory military action , which it says is aimed at destroying hamas . while mr bushnell had strong pro - palestinian views and engaged with local activist groups , no - one expected that he would end his life in a protest against the war in gaza . aaron bushnell grew up in orleans , massachusetts , in a tightly cloistered religious community known as the community of jesus , according to his friends . a childhood friend , ashley schuman , told the new york times he had told her he left the community in 2019 . mr escamilla said that mr bushnell was no longer involved in the community of jesus and had distanced himself from his family . some former members of the community of jesus alleged psychological abuse in a 2021 abc news investigation . mr bushnell ' s parents , the community of jesus , and a former employer in the community declined to comment to the bbc . in his youth , mr bushnell belonged to a competitive performance group called spirit winter percussion . a group photo from six years ago on his facebook page shows the young performers wearing colourful uniforms and large grins . " back then he didn ' t really talk about much besides sports , music , etc ," brian spencer , who was in the percussion group with mr bushnell , told the bbc . " but he was a good dude and would always lend a helping hand when needed ." mr bushnell entered active service on 5 may , 2020 , according the air force . his most recent role was in cyber defence operations . friends say he left san antonio late last year , and he was living in ohio before his death . on his linkedin page , mr bushnell wrote he was seeking opportunities in the us military ' s skillbridge program , which allows military personnel to transition into civilian jobs after their service ends . he was still in the air force at the time of his death . " we extend our deepest sympathies to the family and friends of senior airman bushnell ," us air force col . celina noyes said in a statement . at friday ' s vigil , there was an emphasis on remembering the airman as his friends knew him and the causes he believed in , rather than how the world had come to learn his name . before she began her speech on friday , a woman who volunteered with mr bushnell told the crowd : " you ' re going to hear a lot of sad things . but you ' re also going to hear a lot of really good things . " because this final , fiery moment was not the sum of his life ."