almost 450 , 000 palestinians have fled from rafah over the past week , the un says , as israeli tanks reportedly push deeper into the southern gaza city . " people face constant exhaustion , hunger and fear ," warned the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa . israel ' s military says it is continuing " operations against terror targets " in the east of the city , where more than a million people had been sheltering . new israeli operations in northern gaza have displaced another 100 , 000 people . israeli troops have gone back into the areas of zeitoun and jabalia , where the military says hamas has regrouped only five months after it claimed to have dismantled the group ' s local battalions . the military ordered civilians to evacuate eastern rafah and jabalia for their own safety before starting the assaults , but the total of those displaced in recent days is equivalent to almost a quarter of gaza ' s 2 . 3 million population . israel launched a military campaign to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage . more than 35 , 170 people have been killed in gaza since then , including 82 in the past 24 hours , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . on tuesday morning , unrwa posted several photos showing empty streets in rafah which were packed with tents and makeshift shelters before the start of the israeli operation on 6 may . families had fled in search of safety , it said , but added : " nowhere is safe . an immediate ceasefire is the only hope ." unrwa spokeswoman louise wateridge , who is in rafah , wrote on x ( formerly twitter ) that families still in the city had " moved as far west as possible " and had set up tents on beaches along the mediterranean coast . further inland was " now a ghost town ", she added . hadeel radwan , a displaced mother of a newborn baby who is sheltering in the western tal al - sultan area , said she was terrified by the constant shelling and was enduring shortages of drinking water and other supplies . she told afp news agency that fellow residents had been fleeing , but " i had a c - section and moving quickly , under threat , would be difficult for me ." other palestinians told reuters news agency that israeli tanks were advancing deeper into residential areas in south - eastern rafah and had crossed the main north - south road to the nearby rafah crossing with egypt , which israeli troops took control of on tuesday . " the tanks advanced this morning west of salah al - din road , into the brazil and al - jneineh neighbourhoods ," one resident said . " they are in the streets inside the built - up area and there are clashes ," they added . al - jneineh was one of the eastern neighbourhoods covered by the initial israeli evacuation order , while brazil was included in the expanded evacuation zone declared on saturday . residents have been told to head towards an " expanded humanitarian area ", which stretches north from the coastal strip of al - mawasi to the central town of deir al - balah . but the un has said the area lacks basic infrastructure . in a statement issued on tuesday , the israel defense forces said troops had " eliminated several armed terrorist cells in close - quarters encounters on the gazan side of the rafah crossing " and also " eliminated a number of terrorists and located weapons " in eastern areas of rafah . hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk and other countries - said its fighters had killed and wounded several israeli troops after it targeted an israeli troop carrier with an anti - tank missile in the al - salam neighbourhood , south of brazil , and blew up a booby - trapped building on george street , which runs through al - jneineh . the idf said a soldier was seriously wounded in combat in southern gaza . after seven months of war in gaza , israel has insisted victory is impossible without taking rafah and eliminating the last remaining hamas battalions . but the un and western powers have warned that an all - out assault could lead to mass civilian casualties and a humanitarian catastrophe . as well as the mass displacement of palestinians in the city , the un has warned that it is running out of supplies of fuel , food and other essential goods because the rafah crossing is closed and the nearby kerem shalom crossing with israel is inaccessible due to the hostilities in the area . the un said an indian staff member was killed on monday in a strike as he travelled in a marked vehicle to the european gaza hospital in khan younis , just to the north - east of rafah , without blaming any party . the idf said an initial inquiry indicated the vehicle was struck in an active combat zone and that it had not been made aware of its route . but the un said israeli authorities had been informed of its planned movements . white house national security adviser jake sullivan said on monday that the us still believed " it would be a mistake to launch a major military operation into the heart of rafah that would put huge numbers of civilians at risk without a clear strategic gain ". " we are still working with israel on a better way to ensure the defeat of hamas everywhere in gaza , including in rafah ," he added . qatar ' s prime minister meanwhile warned on tuesday that the rafah operation had " sent backward " his country and egypt ' s efforts to broker a new ceasefire and hostage release deal between israel and hamas . " especially in the past few weeks , we have seen some momentum building but unfortunately , things didn ' t move in the right direction and right now we are in a status of almost a stalemate ," sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al - thani told an economic forum in doha . the idf also said on tuesday that its forces had engaged in a number of battles in the jabalia area of northern gaza , adding that they had " eliminated by tank fire dozens of terrorists who shot at the troops and dismantled an explosives network that was planted in the area ". troops also " eliminated several terrorists ", located tunnel shafts , and dismantled launches and a weapons storage facility in the zeitoun area , in eastern gaza city , according to the statement . hamas ' s military wing said its fighters had fired missiles at tanks inside jabalia ' s refugee camp and also targeted troops inside a house with missiles and explosive devices , killing or wounding a number of them . the idf said three soldiers were seriously wounded in northern gaza . residents who fled jabalia on monday said they had seen tanks pushing into the camp under cover from heavy fire from the air and ground . one man still living inside jabalia with his wife and several young children told bbc arabic ' s gaza lifeline programme that it was " as if we had returned to the first days of the war ". " the war has become fiercer than before in terms of the intensity of fire belts [ bombings ] and gunfire ," mustafa jamil abu salman said . " i have become afraid to leave my house to buy basic goods . the streets in the north [ of jabalia ] are empty now of people , as no - one can pass through them and the [ first responders ] cannot pull out the bodies of martyrs from there ." he added : " i was blessed with having a baby two days ago ... but the place where [ my wife ] had to give birth was completely unsuitable ." the idf said on sunday that troops had begun an operation in jabalia " based on intelligence information regarding attempts by hamas to reassemble its terrorist infrastructure and operatives in the area ". an estimated 300 , 000 people are trapped in northern gaza and are experiencing a " full - blown famine " due to a lack of aid deliveries , according to the head of the world food programme . israeli fighter jets and other aircraft also struck more than 100 targets throughout gaza over the past day , according to the idf . it said approximately 15 members of armed groups were killed in a strike on what it described as a " hamas war room " located inside a school run by unrwa in the nuseirat refugee camp , in central gaza . unrwa has not commented , but photos showed its staff inspecting a destroyed structure beside a blue - painted school filled with displaced people . the hamas - run civil defence force meanwhile said its first responders had recovered 26 bodies after an overnight israeli air strike flattened a three - storey family home elsewhere in nuseirat . it did not mention the school .