in the days after the 7 october attack , two us aircraft carrier strike groups set sail for the middle east - a war - ready fleet signalling president biden ' s determination to deter israel ' s foes . on tuesday , a different projection of american power departs from the east coast . more than 1 , 000 us troops will set sail to build a vast , floating harbour to supply gaza with food and stem the growing risk of palestinians dying of starvation . the contrasting missions , within five months of war waged between israel and hamas , have revealed the strain contained in washington ' s policies . one current and two former administration officials told the bbc they believe the us approach amounts to an outright contradiction : arming israel while at the same time unsuccessfully urging it to allow far more aid through its military lines to reach the war ' s civilian victims . the united states remains israel ' s closest ally and biggest provider of military aid , yet an already troubled relationship between mr biden and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has atrophied into a clash increasingly on public display . at its core is the spiralling number of civilians killed and a humanitarian crisis in gaza , where the un warns that more than half a million people - a quarter of the population - is on the brink of famine . mr biden has become more and more vocal in calling for israel to let much more humanitarian aid into the territory , with " no excuses ". he used his state of the union speech to argue for israel ' s fundamental right to defend itself since the hamas attacks but also to tell its leadership that life - saving supplies to palestinians could not be a " bargaining chip ". he has called israel ' s response in gaza " over the top ". the israeli prime minister insists aid is being allowed in , laying blame instead with hamas for " stealing " it and the un for failures in its distribution . the un in turn blames israel for attacking police who secured the convoys . mr netanyahu hit back at the us president over his criticisms and over a warning he was " hurting " more than " helping " israel , telling mr biden he was wrong on both counts . " the attempt to say that my policies are my private policies that are not supported by most israelis , is false . the vast majority are united as never before and they understand what ' s good for israel ," mr netanyahu told the politico website on sunday . israel is the world ' s biggest cumulative recipient of us military aid , supplied by washington with around $ 3 . 8bn worth of weapons and defence systems each year . mr biden , caught on a " hot - mic " after his speech to congress , said he had told mr netanyahu he would have a " come - to - jesus meeting " with him , sparking speculation he could make a threat to cancel some weapons supply as leverage . mr biden later suggested an israeli assault on the city of rafah , where some 1 . 5 million mostly displaced palestinians have sought refuge , was a " red line ". but he also appeared to back - track , saying : " the defence of israel is critical … there ' s no red line [ in which ] i ' m going to cut off all weapons so they don ' t have the iron dome [ missile defence system ]." mr netanyahu responded during his interview on sunday , vowing to press ahead into rafah : " we ' ll go there . we ' re not going to leave [ hamas ]. you know , i have a red line . you know what the red line is ? that october 7 doesn ' t happen again . never happens again ." among critics of us policy are some who have spent decades implementing it . josh paul , a former senior official at the state department who resigned last year in protest over the impact of military assistance to israel , said the administration should abide by us laws that limit arms supplies if a country is deemed to be restricting access to us humanitarian aid . " using the us air force , or building this pier [ to deliver aid ]… both of those are being done because the administration has not leaned on israel hard enough to open the ground lines of assistance to gaza ." " i think american military families need to be very aware that the president is making a decision to put their family members into harm ' s way , rather than leaning on an ally to follow its own obligations under international law ," said mr paul . pressed by the bbc on monday over the extent of its influence , the us state department said it was the " intervention of the united states that has led humanitarian assistance to go into gaza in the first place ." " the president of the united states travelled to israel and cemented a deal that secretary blinken initially reached to allow [ the ] rafah [ crossing with egypt ] to open ," said state department spokesman matthew miller . israel ' s government denies blocking access , saying " israel has placed no restrictions on the amount of food , water , medical or shelter equipment that can enter the gaza strip ," blaming a " backlog " on un agencies which the un categorically rejects . dave harden , a former mission director at the us agency for international development ( usaid ) in the west bank and gaza , told the bbc that mr netanyahu didn ' t appear to be listening . " he almost treats biden as some kind of inconsequential second secretary of a low - ranked european power … the gap between israel and the us just deepens ," said mr harden .