it wasn ' t many days ago that israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu was under enormous pressure . after seven aid workers from world central kitchen were killed by the israeli army in gaza on 1 april , us president joe biden seemed finally to lose patience with his troublesome ally . on the same day , israel attacked the iranian diplomatic compound in damascus , killing a senior general , at least six other officers , and violating legal conventions that prohibit attacks on embassies . israel claimed , unconvincingly , that iran had forfeited that protection by turning the consular building it destroyed into a military outpost . iran promised it would retaliate , but previous attacks on senior commanders had generated more words than actions . outside iran , the attack on damascus was overshadowed by the fury caused by the killing of the team from world central kitchen , a us - based charity . the white house issued a furious statement from president biden . he was " outraged and heartbroken ". it was not a standalone incident . israel was not doing enough to protect aid workers or palestinian civilians . in an angry call with the prime minister , he demanded major concessions . gaza should be flooded with humanitarian aid . israel must open more border crossings , as well as the container port in ashdod , less than an hour ' s drive away from children starving to death in northern gaza . prime minister netanyahu promised that things would change . despite that , israel was stalling . as well as feeling the heat from the white house , mr netanyahu was also under pressure from the ultranationalist extremists whose backing in israel ' s parliament keeps his coalition in power . not only are they opposed to flooding gaza with aid . they believe the war has presented israel with a priceless opportunity to re - settle jews in gaza . jewish settlements there were evacuated and demolished by israel in 2005 as part of a unilateral withdrawal from the territory . by the end of last week , the us was increasing the pressure . on thursday , samantha power , the top us humanitarian official , said it was " credible " that famine was already affecting parts of gaza . it was apparent to israel ' s friends as well as its enemies that its six - month siege of gaza had created the world ' s most urgent food crisis . there was another burst of speculation that the us would put conditions on the use of the weapons it supplies to israel . on saturday morning , hours before the iranian attack on israel , the new york times echoed deepening outrage , especially among prominent democrats in the us congress . it called for a pause in the supply of weapons to israel and laid into benjamin netanyahu . under the headline , military aid to israel cannot be unconditional , the paper ' s editorial board slammed mr netanyahu and the hardliners in his government for breaking " the bond of trust " with america . the us commitment to israel , and its right to defend itself , did not mean that president biden " should allow mr . netanyahu to keep playing his cynical double games ", it said . then iran ' s first - ever direct attack on israel offered the prime minister a lifeline . in a remarkable feat of military co - operation , the us and other western allies helped israel shoot down more than 300 drones and missiles launched by iran . no arab leader has been a sterner critic of israel ' s war in gaza than king abdullah of jordan . but jordan ' s air force joined the operation , downing projectiles heading for israel . calls for putting conditions on military aid to israel were replaced by resounding expressions of solidarity . prime minister netanyahu has been presented with new political opportunities . gaza is out of the headlines , for a day or two at least . but pressure on the prime minister has changed . it has not gone . israel ' s next moves might redouble it . president biden has made it very clear what he thinks should happen next . israel should declare victory in this episode , " take the win ", and not hit back . he declared , again , that america ' s support for israel was " ironclad ". that fitted in to his consistent policy since the hamas attacks on 7 october . the president and his administration have worked hard to stop a wider , all - out war in the middle east , even as they funnelled massive supplies of arms to israel that have been used to devastating and deadly effect in gaza . since october israel has accepted the weapons and the diplomatic support that accompanied them and ignored joe biden ' s increasingly desperate and angry calls to respect the laws of war and protect civilians . just a few days after unprecedented military co - operation from its allies against iran , israel looks once again to be bent on ignoring not just joe biden ' s advice not to retaliate , but very similar sentiments from the other countries that helped out on saturday night . just like joe biden , prime minister rishi sunak in britain and president emmanuel macron in france deployed combat aircraft , both condemned iran , and both have urged israel not to hit back . they are coming up against long - held beliefs and instincts in israel . one is the deep conviction that israel ' s survival depends on responding to attacks with overwhelming force . another is benjamin netanyahu ' s view , expressed many times over his years in power , that iran is israel ' s most dangerous enemy , bent on the destruction of the jewish state . many israelis share that view . now , after years of enmity since the islamic revolution in 1979 , iran has for the first time mounted a direct attack on israel . a long clandestine war has come out of the shadows . israel has said the question is not if it will hit back , but when and how . the war cabinet has been debating how to do it without igniting an all - out war . in the end , though , any attack will gamble that iran does not want all - out war either , and will respond accordingly . that is a dangerous assumption . both sides have already badly misjudged the other ' s intentions . once again , benjamin netanyahu and his government are bent on ignoring the wishes of allies who have gone the extra mile to help israel against its enemies . his ultranationalist allies are demanding a crushing attack on iran . one of them said israel should " go berserk ". at the same time the humanitarian catastrophe continues in gaza . international attention has swung away from it but will return . israel ' s military is still operating in gaza and still killing civilians . deadly violence between palestinians and jewish settlers in the west bank has surged again . israel ' s border war with hezbollah could escalate fast . iran has vowed to retaliate more strongly if israel attacks . the chief of staff of its armed forces , hossein baqeri , said the attack on israel had been " limited " and promised a " far greater " response if israel retaliated . the americans have said they will not assist if israel attacks iran . but it is hard to believe that joe biden ' s definition of an " ironclad " commitment to israel ' s security would keep the us on the sidelines if iran answered an israeli attack with another of its own . the slide continues towards a wider war in the middle east and a deeper global crisis .