the israeli army has launched an investigation after a palestinian volunteer paramedic was killed in the occupied west bank . the palestinian red crescent ( prcs ) said mohammed awad allan , 50 , was shot while treating people who had been injured by israeli settlers . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said forces were sent to the village of as - sawiya to break up clashes . it confirmed an ambulance driver was killed , and that it was investigating . the circumstances of the death are not clear . in a statement on sunday , the idf said troops and israel border police forces were sent following reports of a " violent confrontation of mutual rock hurling that occurred between palestinians and israeli civilians in the area of as - sawiya ". it added : " during the incident , an ambulance driver for the palestine red crescent was killed . the military police have opened an investigation ." the prcs said mr allan tried to treat people injured " by gunshots fired by israeli settlers ". some hebrew - language media reports said mr allan was killed by firing from the israeli armed forces - others reported he was shot by armed settlers . according to prcs , mr allan served as a volunteer with the qaryut ambulance committee - an initiative to offer ambulance services to the area ' s residents . separately , palestinian officials said at least 14 people , including a boy and a gunman , were killed in an israeli military operation in the west bank refugee camp of nur shams on saturday . the israeli military said security forces had killed 10 people it said were terrorists , and arrested eight others . west bank violence has been on the rise for months . around 700 , 000 israelis live in 160 settlements alongside 2 . 7 million palestinians in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem , according to the israeli settlement watchdog peace now . the international community regards the settlements as illegal , although israel disputes this . there are also about 160 so - called outposts , or small settlements , which have been built without official approval and are considered illegal under israeli law . tensions were already high before 7 october , when hamas launched a deadly attack on israel , sparking the war in gaza . since then , more than 460 palestinians have been killed in the west bank , according to the palestinian health ministry . those deaths includes armed fighters amid a rise in raids by the israeli military on palestinian towns and villages . in the same period , at least 13 israelis have been killed in the west bank , including two members of israel ' s security forces . human rights groups say incidents of settler attacks , and alleged involvement of the security forces , are rarely fully investigated . on 16 april , the un human rights office called on israeli security forces to end what it called their active participation in and support for attacks by settlers in the west bank .