an islamic extremist has been found guilty of murdering a passer - by in the street . moroccan asylum seeker ahmed alid , 45 , stabbed 70 - year - old terence carney multiple times in hartlepool in october . he later told police it was in protest against israel and the gaza conflict . alid was found guilty of murder and the attempted murder of his housemate , javed nouri , who he had attacked before the fatal stabbing of mr carney . he will be sentenced on 17 may at teesside crown court . in a statement released after the verdict , mr carney ' s family said : " for us , things will never be the same again ." the family thanked a number of people , especially mr nouri and two other men who gave evidence , ariyan karimi and mohammed karimi . " what they themselves endured that night was truly horrific , they believed they too were going to die . " despite this , they fully assisted the police with their enquiries and gave their evidence in court , which is testament to their characters . " these three men were the voice of our loved one , when he was unable to speak out for himself . for this we will forever be grateful to them ." alid , who spoke through an arabic interpreter during the trial , had admitted stabbing the two men but denied he had intended to kill or cause really serious harm . the court had heard he arrived in the uk illegally in 2020 and lived with three other asylum seekers at a house on hartlepool ' s wharton terrace . prosecutors said alid followed an " extreme interpretation of islam " and had issues with his housemate , iranian - national javed nouri , 31 , who had converted to christianity . at about 05 : 00 bst on 15 october , alid forced his way into mr nouri ' s room and stabbed him multiple times with a kitchen knife while shouting " allahu akbar ", meaning " god is greatest ". after mr nouri fought him off , alid fled into the street and came across mr carney , who was out for a regular early morning walk on nearby raby road . jurors were shown cctv of alid confronting mr carney , chasing him a short distance and stabbing him six times , while the 70 - year - old repeatedly shouted " no ". prosecutor jonathan sandiford kc said it was not a " frenzied attack " but " considered ", as alid circled mr carney and stabbed him , with one wound fatally penetrating his heart . police responding to a 999 call about the wharton terrace attack found mr carney lying in the street , where he was pronounced dead . alid was arrested by armed police a short distance away . in his 87 - minute police interview , alid , who believed he had killed mr nouri , said the " whole issue " was the " independence of palestine " and " to have two dead victims [ was ] better than more ", adding israel had " killed a lot of children " so he " killed two old people ". he said mr carney was a " poor " and " innocent " man who had " committed no faults ", but he was killed because britain had " created " israel and " should make it leave ". alid also told officers he would have killed more people if he had not injured his hand while stabbing mr nouri , and would have slain " thousands " if he had a machine gun . when questioned about his interview in court , alid denied he had made such comments and blamed the tunisian interpreter helping him in the interview . at the end of his interview at middlesbrough police station , alid verbally abused the tunisian interpreter and then lunged at the two female detectives questioning him . the court heard a panic button was pressed multiple times but was not working , and alid ' s solicitor who was also in the room called 999 to say they were " stuck in a room with a terror suspect ". other officers , who were monitoring the interview from a different location , ran in and restrained alid . jurors also found him guilty of two counts of assaulting emergency workers . the trial heard mr nouri had complained to housing managers and the police about alid , who had taken to carrying a knife and was making regular threats . two days before the attacks , a cleveland police officer said no crime had been committed so no further action was taken . the court was told alid was a patisserie chef who ran a coffee and pastry shop in algeria but left in 2007 , moving around europe before arriving in the uk illegally in 2020 via a ferry from amsterdam . his asylum claim had still not been processed at the time of the attack . following the verdict , cleveland police ' s deputy chief constable victoria fuller said the stabbings " shook the local community to its core ". she said : " alid ' s actions not only left a family devastated , but also caused significant fear and distress amongst residents in hartlepool and beyond ." follow bbc tees on facebook , x ( formerly twitter ), and instagram . send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .