if you wanted to map the path to a healthy , functioning palestinian government , you probably wouldn ' t start from here . the last time palestinians had the chance to vote for their national leaders was 18 years ago , and those elections sparked a civil war in palestinian politics . that isn ' t a metaphor : hamas , which won the elections , and fatah , the biggest political faction , were shooting each other in gaza ' s streets . the fighting ended with hamas taking control of gaza , and fatah running the occupied west bank through the palestinian authority ( pa ). it was a political cold war that lasted for a generation . that is where this journey starts . the 7 october hamas attacks on israel , and the war in gaza , ripped that picture to shreds : israel says it is intent on eliminating hamas as a governing and military force in gaza . international eyes have turned towards the pa as the vehicle that might - with enough reform - carry palestinians into a new , united post - war era . there are many challenges ahead . the first is credibility . the gaza war might have exploded palestinian politics , but one of the few things it hasn ' t changed is disillusionment with the pa , the body that the us is banking on to take charge of gaza . it is widely seen as corrupt and inefficient , and - by some - as a security enforcer for the israeli government in the west bank . a poll this week by the respected palestinian centre for policy and survey research in ramallah suggested that a majority of palestinians think the pa should be dissolved . and satisfaction with its president in the west bank , mahmoud abbas , was just 8 %. mr abbas has replaced his prime minister , mohammad shtayyeh , in an effort to signal reform - or " renewal " as the american government has termed it . but it has not really moved the dial . the new prime minister , an economist called mohammad mustafa , has been tasked with heading a technocratic interim government , and bringing together all the palestinian political factions - including hamas - to find some sort of consensus around a new unified vision for the future . and that is the second challenge : unity . sabri saidam , a senior fatah official , told me that the resignation of the government was designed to " open up the floor " to other factions - like hamas - and give them " the space to reconsider their political stance , and their obligations in the future - and also their role , given the changes that have happened since 7 october ". " we have been talking to hamas indirectly ," he said . " we have restated the importance of adhering to the [ â €¦] two - state solution ," referring to the idea that israelis and palestinians could live side - by - side in separate countries . " and we have received positive signs ." last month , representatives from fatah and hamas sat down in moscow with other palestinian factions to discuss a way forward . it was seen as a positive sign that hamas backed a statement from that meeting , pledging support for the palestine liberation organisation ( plo ), an umbrella group for palestinian political movements that negotiated a previous peace deal with israel . but that feelgood moment in moscow was quickly shattered when hamas reacted furiously to the appointment of mr mustafa , accusing mahmoud abbas of acting unilaterally and taking " empty steps " without national consensus . " hamas did not react the way we had anticipated ," said sabri saidam , although he believes it follows a familiar pattern of behaviour by the group . " we hear some positive remarks [ from hamas ], but then when it comes to practical engagement , there ' s always a setback ," he told me . " this time , things have to be different . we don ' t have the luxury of time to play with words without walking the talk ." fatah hit back , accusing hamas of triggering " a catastrophe " for the palestinian people by attacking israel on 7 october ; a catastrophe that was worse , it said , than the displacement of hundreds of thousands of palestinians in 1948 , when the israeli state was created . sabri saidam says the party is now waiting to see whether this incident marks the end of hamas talking to the plo , " or is just a reflection of the chaos hamas is in ". it ' s early days , but so far the " renewal " of the pa hasn ' t yet delivered either unity with rival political factions , or credibility with the palestinian people . elections - and a new leader - might help with both . " it ' s so depressing to be 33 - years - old - like i am now - and i haven ' t voted even once in my country ," said arab barghouti , son of the jailed political leader marwan barghouti . " people my age are ministers or parliament members in many other countries , but for us it ' s a dream to vote ," he told me . " we need that renewal in the whole system - and that can only happen with elections ." arab ' s father marwan - currently serving five life sentences for murder in an israeli jail - is probably the most popular figure in palestinian politics . his supporters call him the palestinian mandela . he is one of few figures who could potentially unite the different palestinian factions . and his name is likely to be near the top of the list of palestinian prisoners that hamas would want released in exchange for freeing israeli hostages held in gaza . but barghouti was blocked from a previous prisoner exchange deal in 2011 , and israel ' s government has little incentive to agree to his release now . the israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has proudly declared that he will block the formation of a palestinian state and is widely seen as having promoted division between the west bank and gaza as a way of doing that . a popular , unifying figure like barghouti - convicted of murdering israelis - is the last person he wants leading the palestinians . mahmoud abbas also has much to fear from his release . in their polling , the palestinian centre for policy and survey research pitted marwan barghouti against both mahmoud abbas , and ismail haniyeh from hamas . marwan barghouti would win by a mile against either of them , the projections suggested . there are other figures who are seen as potential bridge - makers - mohammed dahlan is one - but even a unifying figure , or credible elections , won ' t solve all the problems facing palestinian politics . it won ' t , for example , solve the problem of what to do with hamas . to what extent hamas still holds power in gaza , after more than five months of war , is complicated and difficult to assess . there have been reports of law and order breaking down , and of armed gangs linked to gaza ' s big families competing for resources . but hamas fighters are still confronting israeli forces across the gaza strip , most of its top leadership still appear to be free , and israel says several hamas battalions remain intact in the southern border town of rafah . even the civilian committees responsible for distributing aid in gaza city are overwhelmingly affiliated with hamas , one resident said . any new administration in gaza will need to have at least the tacit support of the group or face ongoing friction , or an insurgency . the dilemma will be how to give hamas a voice - even a discreet one - without triggering resistance from influential outside powers like the us - and , of course , from israel , which is also trying to veto any role for the pa in gaza . that dilemma is compounded by continued support for hamas across both palestinian territories . support spiked in the first few months of the war , and now seems to be falling a bit , but a majority of those interviewed by the palestinian centre for policy and survey research said they wanted hamas to run gaza after the war ; only 11 % wanted the pa to take charge there . the last time palestinians voted in elections , in 2006 , hamas won . the chances of them being allowed to openly run candidates in any new elections are virtually zero - but that doesn ' t change the mood on the ground . with israeli forces still fighting their way through gaza , the new shape of palestinian politics is not yet fixed . how the war ends - and how strong hamas remains after it - will be key . the us government , among others , has dangled the old familiar prize of a future palestinian state to encourage both palestinian leaders and their arab allies to unite around their vision . but the failures of internationally backed peace deals - and the institutions they created - are already partly what drive support for armed groups like hamas . preparing for elections is , sabri saidam believes , the biggest feasible step to restore faith in palestinian politics . the first priority will be reconstructing gaza , he said . " but my personal take is that , once we engage in reconstruction , it will be extremely helpful if we set an election date within a year - and - a - half . and that the world realises we are serious ." for the past two decades , sea - changes in palestinian politics have been rare - and sometimes violent . despite all this , arab barghouti is optimistic . " we palestinians don ' t have the privilege of being hopeless ," he told me . " if we lose hope , we lose our country , we lose our land . palestinians need hope . we haven ' t had hope in a very long time ."