israel ' s benjamin netanyahu has vowed to reject any sanctions on the country ' s military , after reports that the us plans to cut aid to one unit . " i will fight it with all my strength ," the prime minister said on sunday . earlier , the axios news site said the us would target israel ' s netzah yehuda battalion over alleged human rights violations in the occupied west bank . the bbc understands any move would come under a us ban on aid to foreign units credibly implicated in violations . when asked last week about reports that us military aid to the israel defense forces ' ( idf ) units could be cut over allegations of human rights abuses in the occupied west bank , secretary of state antony blinken said : " i ' ve made determinations ; you can expect to see them in the days ahead ". washington - israel ' s main ally - has never suspended aid to an idf unit before . the israeli military said netzah yehuda was operating in accordance with international law . " following publications about sanctions against the battalion , the idf is not aware of the issue ," the military is quoted as saying by reuters news agency . " the idf works and will continue to work to investigate any unusual event in a practical manner and according to law ." israel ' s defence minister yoav gallant called on the us to withdraw its intention to sanction netzah yehuda , saying the world was watching the ties between the us and israel more closely than ever . " any attempt to criticise an entire unit casts a heavy shadow on the actions of the idf ," a statement from mr gallant read , adding " this is not the right path for partners and friends ". on saturday , axios cited three us sources with knowledge of the issue as saying that mr blinken was expected to announce measures against netzah yehuda within days . it said the move would be over alleged abuses in the west bank , including one incident in which a palestinian - american man , 80 - year - old omar assad , died after being bound and gagged by israeli soldiers during a search in the west bank in january 2022 . at the time the us called for a " thorough criminal investigation and full accountability " in the case . the idf later said it regretted mr assad ' s death and that the netzah yehuda commander would be " reprimanded " over it . it added that two soldiers would barred from serving in senior positions for two years , but would not be prosecuted . it said mr assad ' s death had been caused by a pre - existing medical condition . mr assad ' s family , many of whom are based in the us , condemned the decision to close the case . all the alleged violations took place before the 7 october hamas attack on israel from the gaza strip . any decision to bar an idf unit from us military assistance would be made under the " leahy law ", sponsored in 1997 by then - senator patrick leahy . it prevents us funding or training being used for foreign military units credibly implicated in gross human rights violations . last year , a group of us officials known as the " israel - leahy vetting forum " looked into at least a dozen allegations made against israeli units , including the netzah yehuda battalion , a former senior us official told the bbc . " we believed that in most cases , these were un - remediated - in other words , the perpetrators had not been properly held to account ," said josh paul , former director of the office of congressional and public affairs in the state department ' s bureau of political - military affairs , which oversees us arms transfers . " when we tried to advance these recommendations to the secretary [ of state ] we were never able to get them through the political level ," he added . mr paul resigned from his position in november in protest at what he saw as a lack of accountability over weapons transfers to israel . asked whether the recommendations he mentioned had since reached mr blinken ' s desk , he cited the recent media reports suggesting they had . formed in 1999 , netzah yehuda is a special men - only unit where ultra - orthodox jews serve . earlier this week , the state department imposed sanctions on israeli far - right activist ben zion gopstein . it said his organisation , lehava , had " engaged in destabilising violence affecting the west bank ".