as one of the nation ' s most preeminent historically black colleges prepares to host president joe biden , students say controversy surrounding his visit has overshadowed their graduation . mr biden will travel to morehouse college in atlanta , georgia , on sunday to deliver the school ' s commencement address , a tradition complicated by criticism over his handling of the israel - gaza war , which has sparked nationwide college protests . the speech ' s audience and setting - a battleground state critical to mr biden ' s re - election - also bring into focus the looming november presidential election . morehouse , one of 107 historically black colleges and universities ( hbcus ) in the us , and the only all - male hbcu , offers mr biden a chance to address young black men - a crucial group of voters whose support for the democratic president has eroded . while the college has seen a handful of demonstrations against the war in gaza , they have not reached the size and scope of others . but frustration grew in april after students ' concerns at protests went unanswered and mr biden was announced as their graduation speaker . some students and faculty called for the president ' s invitation to be rescinded . the college responded by giving students and faculty an opportunity to voice concerns at forums on campus . but morehouse president david thomas made clear that mr biden would be the speaker . " it makes me feel like it ' s no longer about me ," said marq riggins , a morehouse 2024 graduate who said he ' s not enthusiastic about the remarks . " he ' s coming here to take pictures with us .'' in a procedural step on thursday , faculty at morehouse voted on giving mr biden an honorary degree during sunday ' s graduation . some media reports indicated opposition among faculty , but ultimately they voted in favour of the honorary degree , 50 - 38 . mr riggins is not alone in his frustration and distrust of the president . a 13 may poll from the new york times , the philadelphia inquirer and siena college that examined swing states found the president behind with multiple constituencies he is courting , including younger voters , voters in georgia and young black voters . black voters are a critical voting bloc for democrats , especially in georgia , where about a third of the population is black . mr biden won georgia in 2020 by a mere 12 , 000 votes - one of the slimmest state margins in his victory over former president donald trump . the white house has dismissed recent polls , pointing instead to low black unemployment . ahead of his november rematch with mr trump , mr biden also is touting student debt cancellation , infrastructure investments , and more than $ 16bn in federal funding and investments in hbcus to black voters . steve benjamin , who leads the white house office of public engagement , told reporters on thursday he travelled to morehouse last week to learn from students and faculty " what they wanted to hear on their very special commencement day ". mr benjamin said many students wanted to talk about the middle east , reconnecting communities and wealth creation . he added that the president believes in free speech and that extends to those who wish to protest at the event . " i wouldn ' t be opposed to being disruptive ," said mr riggins , the student . " it ' s a sloppy mess of political agendas ." brycen barnes , a morehouse graduating senior , said he is supportive of mr biden ' s visit , but doesn ' t necessarily want it to be a campaign stop . " i don ' t view it as a necessarily bad thing ," he said . " i ' m glad we ' re having a president [ speak to us ]. i want it to be genuine that he ' s coming here , i don ' t want it to be political ." meanwhile , mr biden sat for two interviews on black radio stations , including one in atlanta where he told listeners that mr trump hurt black people during his time in office . " black unemployment , uninsurance rates went up under trump ," mr biden said . " trump ' s tax plan reinforced discrimination . typical white households got double the cut of the typical black household . they botched covid - 19 response , leaving black people dead and black - owned businesses shuttered ." karoline leavitt , a campaign spokesperson for mr trump , countered that mr biden is being forced to buy multimillion - dollar ads to get support from " what he thought was his vote base ". " black and hispanic voters , like all americans , are worse - off now than they were under president trump - by a lot - and every poll reflects that reality ," ms leavitt told the bbc . " they have less money and higher prices for everything while being forced to live under a weak president who puts illegal immigrants ' interests ahead of theirs ." on thursday , mr biden marked the 70th anniversary of brown v board of education , the historic ruling that found school segregation to be unconstitutional . derrick johnson , president of the national association for the advancement of colored people ( naacp ), dismissed questions about mr biden and black voters , saying that opinion polls have been wrong in the past . after the commencement , the president will travel to detroit to address a naacp chapter dinner . former us congressman cedric richmond , a senior adviser to the democratic national committee who organised mr biden ' s visit to morehouse , said it will give the president a chance to directly address young black people . " students understand how worthy it is or what a big moment it is for a president to be addressing their institution ," mr richmond told the bbc . but if morehouse students choose to protest against mr biden , as students have at other graduations across the country , mr thomas repeatedly has said he ' ll shut down the ceremony .