when dawn broke last monday morning , signalling the beginning of ramadan , it brought a cruel irony for the people of gaza . the holy month when muslims fast during daylight had arrived amid a looming famine . gazans had already endured five months of war . virtually the entire population was already dependent on food aid to survive . " the people here have already been fasting for months ," said dr amjad eleiwa , the deputy director of the emergency department at al - shifa hospital , gaza city . " they scour the city looking for food to survive , but they cannot find any ." israel ' s bombardment of gaza , in response to the hamas attacks of 7 october , has destroyed food infrastructure and farmland across the territory . aid agencies say enhanced israeli security checks on delivery trucks have created bottlenecks around aid reaching the population . the global body responsible for declaring famine , the integrated food security phase classification ( ipc ), reported this monday that 1 . 1 million people - virtually half the population of gaza - was already starving and the rest of the people there could be in a famine by july . the food crisis is most acute in northern gaza . unlike previous ramadans , residents there cannot rely this year on lining their stomachs with suhoor , the pre - dawn breakfast , nor look forward to assuaging their hunger with iftar , the post - sunset meal . street decorations , drummers and stalls loaded with treats have been replaced by destruction , death and a daily fight to find food . prices for what little flour or wheat is available have risen five - fold . " i remember the last ramadan , there was good food - juices , dates , milk , everything you could want ," said nadia abu nahel , a 57 - year - old mother caring for an extended family of 10 children in gaza city . " compared to this year , it is like heaven and hell ," she said . " the children now are craving a loaf of bread , it is a meal they dream of . their bones are becoming softer . they are dizzy , they struggle to walk . they are becoming very thin ." according to the poverty charity care , at least 27 people - 23 of them children - have died from malnutrition or dehydration in northern gaza in recent weeks . the real number , according to doctors from several northern hospitals , is likely to be higher . among those treated for malnutrition by dr eleiwa at al - shifa hospital recently was a boy aged between 10 and 12 who died last week during ramadan ; a boy aged around four months whose mother was killed , leaving him short of milk when none was available to buy ; and an 18 - year - old girl who was already suffering from epilepsy . " she was already sick and none of her medicine was available any longer and her family had no food ," dr eleiwa said . " in the end her body was very meagre , just bones and skin and no fat ." under his care at al - shifa on friday , 16 - year - old rafeeq dughmoush was lying on his side , bedbound . rafeeq ' s bones were showing and one of his legs had been amputated from the knee down . a colostomy bag was attached to his torso . " i am emaciated ," he said , speaking slowly in order to draw breath between words . " i am so weak i cannot move my body from one side to another . my uncle has to move me ." rafeeq and his sister rafeef , 15 , were severely injured when an israeli air strike hit their home , killing 11 members of the family , their uncle mahmoud said . among the dead were their mother , four other siblings and their nieces and nephews . rafeeq was already suffering from malnutrition , he said , before the strike that wounded him . " we could not find any kind of fruit to eat , no apple , no guava , there was no meat and any food at the markets was all too expensive ," he said . rafeef , whose leg was shattered by the strike and pinned together , said she had asked the hospital staff for any kind of fruit or vegetable for him to eat , " but they cannot provide any ". ramadan used to be a time of pure joy , rafeef said , " heaven compared to now ". " it really was beautiful ," she said . " but these times will not come back . the best people in our lives have disappeared ." the doctors at al - shifa have transferred many child malnutrition patients further north to kamal adwan hospital , because it has better paediatric facilities , but children have died there in high numbers too . dr hussam abu safiya , the head of paediatrics at kamal adwan , said that 21 children had died at the hospital from malnutrition or dehydration in the past four weeks , and there were currently 10 children in an acute condition . " i feel helpless to save these children and it is a hard and shameful feeling ," dr safiya said . " i have the same feeling for my staff , who cannot find enough food for themselves and some days do not eat ." israel was waging a " war by starvation ," he said . " intentionally depriving children of food , killing them with hunger - there is no law in the world that allows occupiers to do this ." the eu ' s foreign policy chief josep borrell has also accused israel of intentionally starving gazans . " in gaza we are no longer on the brink of famine , we are in a state of famine ," he said on monday . " this is unacceptable . starvation is used as a weapon of war . israel is provoking famine ." israel denies it is intentionally starving gazans . it has blamed the un , which it says has created logistical challenges around aid deliveries , as well as hamas , which israel says has commandeered aid . the israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , denied last week that gazans were starving . " that ' s not the information we have , and we monitor it closely ," he told the media outlet politico . but gazans are starving . " the facts speak for themselves ," said abeer etefa , the world food programme ' s senior spokesperson for the middle east . " 1 . 1 million under the ipc phase 5 - that ' s catastrophic hunger . and more than a third of children under two are acutely malnourished . that means they are at risk of death ." on friday , 200 tonnes of food aid provided by the charity world central kitchen arrived by barge at a newly built jetty off the coast of gaza , constructed by the charity from the rubble of destroyed buildings . it is hoped that it will alleviate the severe shortages in north and central gaza , and bring some relief during the remainder of ramadan . but the charitable aid operation has led to accusations against israel that it has abandoned its humanitarian responsibilities to the civilian population , leaving it up to charities and other nations to step in to fill the void . " as an occupying power , the state of israel is obliged to cater to the needs of the population , or to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid ," said juliette touma , director of communications for the un refugee agency , unrwa . " and they are not doing that . not sufficiently ." on friday , as the world central kitchen barge neared the gaza shoreline , khaled naji , a father of six , was helping his wife prepare dinner in the ruins of their home in deir al - balah , central gaza . " we need this aid ," mr naji said . " they talk about humanitarian aid but we get nothing ." like many in gaza , mr naji and his family were attempting to observe ramadan . " we are fasting for god but this year we cannot enjoy it ," he said . " not the suhoor , not the moment we break our fast , not the rituals we usually follow . we are not dressing our children and taking them to prayers . we are not teaching them about our faith . you just feed your child something small and you are afraid all the time a shell will fall on your head ." when sunset arrived , mr naji laid a blanket on a concrete slab and sat with his family amid the rubble . they had scrounged a small amount of fresh food for the evening meal . on some previous days , there had been none . " the situation for us now , in the gaza strip , it makes me envy the dead ," mr naji said . " we are not in ramadan this year , we should change the name . we are in the month of death ." muath al - khatib contributed to this report .