for the leaders of both hamas and israel , ending the war in gaza has become a deadly game of survival . the terms on which the war finally ends could largely determine their political future and their grip on power . for hamas leader yahya sinwar , even his physical survival . it ’ s partly why previous negotiations have failed . it ’ s also why the question of how to permanently end the fighting has been put off to the last stages of the plan outlined by us president joe biden on friday . that transition between talks on a limited hostage - for - prisoner deal to discussions about a permanent ceasefire would , mr biden acknowledged , be “ difficult ”. but it ’ s also where the success or failure of this latest deal is likely to hinge . the us says it has submitted a draft resolution to the un security council supporting the ceasefire plan outlined by president biden . the three - phase plan involves an end to the conflict , the release of the hostages and reconstruction of the palestinian territory . israel ’ s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has strong domestic reasons for wanting to take this deal step by step . phase one , as outlined by mr biden , would see the release of dozens of hostages , both living and dead . that would be widely welcomed in a country where the failure to free all those held by hamas is , for many , a glaring moral stain on mr netanyahu ' s management of the war . but hamas is unlikely to give up its most politically sensitive hostages – women , wounded , elderly – without some kind of guarantee that israel won ’ t simply restart the war once they ’ re home . israel confirms deaths of four more hostages in gazaleaks , quoted by israeli media on monday morning , suggested that benjamin netanyahu has told parliamentary colleagues that israel would be able to keep its options open . that option , to resume fighting – until hamas is “ eliminated ” – is , some believe , the least mr netanyahu ’ s far - right coalition partners will demand . without their support , he faces the prospect of early elections and the continuation of a corruption trial . mr netanyahu needs to keep his long - term options open , to stand a chance of winning their support for any initial hostage deal . hamas leaders , on the other hand , are likely to want permanent ceasefire guarantees upfront . previous deals have collapsed into this chasm . bridging it now will depend on how much room for manoeuvre mr netanyahu has with his hard - right government allies to find alternatives to the “ elimination ” of hamas – and how far hamas leaders are prepared to consider them . mr netanyahu talked over the weekend about the destruction of hamas ’ s “ military and governing capabilities ” and ensuring that the group no longer posed a threat to israel . few dispute that hamas has suffered major losses to its military infrastructure – and even , some say , to its public support within gaza and its control of the streets . but there ’ s no sign that israel has killed or captured its top leaders yahya sinwar and mohammed deif , and leaving them free in gaza to celebrate the withdrawal of israeli forces would spell political disaster for israel ’ s embattled prime minister . on monday a us state department spokesman said that although hamas ' s capabilities had " steadily degraded " in recent months , it remained a threat and the us did not believe the group could be eliminated militarily . meanwhile the white house said mr biden had " confirmed israel ’ s readiness to move forward with the terms that have now been offered to hamas " and said the palestinian group was now the only obstacle to a deal . separately , military spokesman rear admiral daniel hagari said the israeli military would be able to ensure israel ' s security in the event of any truce agreed by the government . however yanir cozin , diplomatic correspondent with israel ’ s military radio station , glz , believes that mr netanyahu won ’ t end the war until he can frame it as a success .“ a deal that leaves hamas is a big failure ,” he said . “ eight months on , when you haven ’ t achieved any of the war goals – not finishing hamas , bringing all the hostages back , or securing the borders – then he doesn ’ t want to end the war . but he also understands that he cannot leave it until the next israeli election in 2026 .”“ if he can say , ‘ we exiled yahya sinwar and mohammed deif , they ’ re not living in gaza ’ – and if the people living close to gaza and the northern border can go back – i think he can keep his government together . but it ’ s a lot of ‘ ifs ’.” hamas is very unlikely to agree to the exile or surrender of its top figures . but there are clear splits emerging between hamas leaders inside and outside gaza . former israeli prime minister ehud barak , who has also served as defence minister , told israeli radio on monday that president biden had announced the deal “ after seeing that netanyahu only moves ahead when he ’ s certain that sinwar will refuse ”.“ how do you think sinwar will react when he tends to agree and then he ’ s told : but be quick , because we still have to kill you after you return all the hostages ,” he said . in the meantime , tens of thousands of israelis displaced after the hamas attacks on 7 october are watching their prime minister ’ s next move . among them is yarin sultan , a 31 - year - old mother of three who ran from her home in sderot on gaza ’ s border the morning after the hamas attacks . she says she won ’ t go home until yahya sinwar and mohammed deif are no longer free .“ this ceasefire will kill us ,” she told the bbc . “ we will free the hostages , but a few years from now you will be the next hostages , you will be the next people who get murdered , the women that are raped – all this will happen again .” additional reporting by rushdi aboualouf