hezbollah rockets have sparked days of bushfires in northern israel , with swathes of forest reserve destroyed and 11 people hospitalised for smoke inhalation . patches of scorched earth start to appear half an hour out from the lebanon border , plumes of grey smoke mapping the route to either side across the hills . local residents in israel ’ s largely - deserted northern communities , have been battling scattered fires for several weeks . one member of a civil defence team said there had been 15 - 16 fires in the area since then . but high temperatures over the past few days have led to a sharp increase . firefighters on monday battled for 20 hours to put out fires around the town of kiryat shmona . the fires – which forest administrators say have so far burned through 3 , 500 acres of land – are fuelling fresh demands that israel ’ s government take steps to end the escalating conflict with hezbollah on its northern front . israel ’ s war cabinet was due to meet on tuesday evening to discuss the worsening security situation along its northern border . israel and hezbollah have been trading cross - border fire on a near daily basis since last october and recent weeks have seen an escalation in the intensity of attacks . residents of one kibbutz said the hezbollah rocket attacks were “ definitely ” linked to israel ’ s actions in gaza , and that since the israeli military ' s ground operation in the southern gaza city of rafah began , three or four rockets were flying over their houses every day . tens of thousands of residents , evacuated from the area after the hamas attacks on israel , are still waiting to return to their homes . but government deadlines to secure these areas keep slipping . many of these displaced residents see a ceasefire in gaza as the key to calming the situation in the north . but israel ’ s far - right security minister , itamar ben - gvir , visiting firefighters in the nearby town of kiryat shmona today , said the government ’ s response to hezbollah ’ s rockets should be war .“ no peace in lebanon while our land is being targeted ,” he said . herzl halevi , israel ’ s army chief of staff , also visiting the region , said the country was “ approaching the point where a decision will have to be made .” the israel defence force , he said , was “ prepared and ready to move to an offensive .” hezbollah ’ s deputy chief , sheikh naim qassem , told al - jazeera that the group was not seeking to widen the conflict with israel but that any israeli expansion of the war would be met “ with devastation ”. the government has been keen to contain this conflict on its northern border , aware that hezbollah is a better - trained and better - equipped enemy than hamas – and that fighting here would be a very different kind of war . but the fires have put this grinding forgotten conflict squarely on the front pages of national newspapers , and israel ’ s prime minister benjamin netanyahu is under fresh pressure to act . he and hamas leader yahya sinwar in gaza are already at the centre of delicate negotiations over a potential ceasefire and hostage exchange deal in gaza , which us president joe biden is pushing both sides to accept . gaza ceasefire plan turns into deadly game of survival