israel ' s army says it has found the body of a 14 - year - old shepherd in the occupied west bank , a day after he went missing . benjamin achimeir had taken a flock of sheep out to graze from malachi hashalom , a settler outpost near ramallah on friday morning . pm benjamin netanyahu called achimeir ' s death a " heinous murder ". a palestinian man was shot overnight during an israeli search for the teenager . it is not clear whether the man - jehad abu alia , 26 - was shot by an armed settler or an israeli soldier . israeli media reported achimeir left " gal farm " in the settler outpost of malachei shalom early on friday , and had not been seen since . he had been grazing sheep , and the sheep returned to the farm without him , police said . achimeir ' s sister hannah , quoted by afp news agency , said he was familiar with the area . " the heinous murder of the boy ... is a serious crime ," mr netanyahu said in a statement reacting to the teenager ' s body being found near malachi hashalom . israeli forces " are in an intensive pursuit after the heinous murderers and all those who collaborated with them ", he added . separately , israel ' s defence minister warned against revenge attacks following achimeir ' s death . posting on social media , yoav gallant wrote : " let the security forces act quickly in the hunt for the terrorists - revenge actions will make it difficult for our fighters in their mission - the law must not be taken into one ' s own hands ." overnight angry settlers , armed with guns and stones , rampaged through a village in the west bank during an israeli search for the teenager . houses and cars in al - mughayyir , near ramallah , were set ablaze as thousands of people took part in the search for achimeir , said israel ganz , head of the binyamin regional council which provides services to israeli settlements in the area . israeli troops later intervened . the israel defense forces ( idf ) says its troops , and not settlers , opened fire at stone - throwing palestinians as " violent disturbances erupted at several points in the area ". troops managed to remove the settlers who had entered the village , it said . " as of this moment , the violent riots have been dispersed and there are no israeli civilians present within the town ," the idf said . the palestinian prime minister , mohammad mustafa , has condemned the attack . foreign governments including israel ' s closest ally , the us , have repeatedly raised concerns over a surge in settler violence against palestinians in the west bank since israel began its military campaign against hamas in gaza . hamas ' s deadly attacks on october 7 , which triggered israel ' s military action , killed some 1 , 200 people , mostly civilians . hamas gunmen also took more than 250 people hostage - israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 600 gazans , the majority of them civilians , have been killed during israel ' s retaliatory campaign , the hamas - run health ministry says . israel has built about 160 settlements housing some 700 , 000 jews since it occupied west bank and east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war . the international community considers the settlements illegal , though israel disputes this . the palestinian health ministry says at least 460 palestinians have been killed by israeli forces or settlers in the west bank since 7 october . israeli sources say at least 13 israelis have been killed there by palestinians in the same period .