first minister john swinney has written to prime minister rishi sunak and the labour leader sir keir starmer to demand that they recognise the state of palestine . speaking on a campaign visit to an exhibition of poems written by children in gaza , the snp leader claimed his party had been westminster ’ s moral compass on the conflict . and mr swinney argued the uk should follow the lead of ireland , norway and spain in recognising a palestinian state . in recent months the uk government has said it was considering such a move . sir keir last week said he wanted to recognise a palestinian state if he won power but added it would need to come at the right time in a peace process . on monday mr swinney said the snp would force the issue to a vote in the house of commons after the election . his predecessor , humza yousaf wrote to the prime minister and the uk labour leader last year calling for the same action . two months later the foreign secretary suggested britain was ready to bring forward the moment when it formally recognises a palestinian state . lord cameron said palestinians had to be given a political horizon to encourage peace in the middle east . labour ' s uk and scottish leaders have shared differing views on issues relating to the conflict in israel and gaza . sir keir previously called for a " humanitarian pause " in the conflict and a sustainable ceasefire . the labour leader also insisted israel had a right to defend itself within international law . meanwhile , the party ' s scottish leader , anas sarwar , backed a motion calling for an immediate ceasefire during his party conference in february . despite this , mr sarwar previously told bbc radio ' s good morning scotland programme that there wasn ' t " as much distance " between his and sir keir ' s views as some believed . he said : " keir starmer has said he wants the fighting to stop right now and for that to be a sustainable ceasefire . i think we ultimately have the same position ." the liberal democrats have been calling for an immediate bilateral ceasefire in order to " stop the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza , get the hostages out and provide the space for a path towards a two - state solution ". israel ' s military campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 others back to gaza as hostages . nearly 36 , 000 palestinians have been killed in the war since then , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry . most countries - about 139 in all , external - already formally recognise a palestinian state . on 10 may , 143 out of 193 members of the united nations ’ general assembly voted in favour of a palestinian bid for full un membership , something that is only open to states . palestine currently has a kind of enhanced observer status at the un , which gives them a seat but not a vote in the assembly . it is also recognised by various international organisations including the arab league and the organisation of islamic cooperation . a minority of european countries already recognise a palestinian state . they comprise hungary , poland , romania , the czech republic , slovakia , and bulgaria which adopted the position 1988 ; and others including sweden and cyprus . but many european nations - and the united states - say they will recognise a palestinian state only as part of a long - term political solution to the conflict in the middle east . this is often referred to as the " two - state solution " where both israelis and palestinians agree to have their own states with their own borders .