in the moments when she is not in the tent caring for the children , zouahra looks out at the sea that forms the western border of her world . on this sunny day it is blue and when the sun sets , gold and red shades will colour the horizon . it is the same sea that washes the beaches of tel aviv to the north , and ebbs and floods along all the coasts of the mediterranean . and it is the sea from which , zouahra says , a shell from an israeli gunboat brought death to her husband . " he was on his way to the seaside where there were cars and an aid convoy … it was crowded , and the military boats started firing at people . my husband was hit in the head ," she says . that was on 9 february - but zouahra , who now lives in a section of a camp housing widows and orphans , did not find out immediately . the 26 - year - old mother had just given birth to her fourth child . at first , the young men who had been at the scene and knew the truth wanted to keep the news from zouahra . mahmoud was just late they said . but she knew something was wrong . her brother - in - law arrived crying and shouting that mahmoud was dead . desperate for the truth , she went to the hospital or , as she puts it , " to the end of the world " - a phrase loaded with foreboding - to find him . zouahra leans forward , lowers her head and sobs . seeing her mother ' s distress , three - year - old lana gently touches her arm . then she softly pats the body of her baby brother mohammed sleeping on her mum ' s lap . zouahra starts to speak again . " his entire body was connected to machines , and he felt freezing cold . i couldn ' t talk to him . i tried , but he wasn ' t responding . " he was sleeping … he went to get food for his children and came back in a coffin ." the family were scattered by war . they lived in gaza city before the fighting and after it began they fled to the refugee camp at al - nusseirat in the centre of the gaza strip . that was the end of mahmoud ' s job working as a labourer for the pioneer food company in gaza . from al - nusseirat , they were again uprooted , fleeing south to rafah after the israel defense forces told them it was a safe zone . zouahra lives with other widows in a section of the al - mawasi refugee camp set aside for unaccompanied women and children . her neighbour amina lost her husband and three children in an israeli air strike on their home near khan younis . amina and her five - year - old son , ibrahim - who is also disabled - were pulled alive from the rubble that buried the rest of the family . another widow , amani jasser al - khawr , 32 , lost her husband , a policeman , and five of her children in an air strike in central gaza in october - and now lives in a shelter made of zinc panels . the wind rattles the panels , just as it whips the plastic sheeting and cloth that covers zouahra and her children . they can see how she struggles . but although her shelter is flimsy and flies constantly settle on the children , the ground has been swept and the family ' s clothes flap on a washing line outside . zouahra shows photographs of her late husband - a handsome man , protective of his family . " i don ' t know what to do without him . he was the one providing for me and my children . he never made me need anyone … no - one cares about us now ," zouahra says . this life piles indignities on the widows . zouahra needs nappies for the baby and for her disabled boy , mustafa . she speaks of his constant anxiety . " he sees something and i can ' t get it for him . he keeps crying and hitting himself on the ground , asking for it , but i can ' t provide it . " mustafa has many needs that i can ' t afford . he keeps peeing himself and asks for things that i can ' t give him . he asks for food , for juice , apples , and fruits , and i can ' t provide ." a few days ago , another family nearby managed , somehow , to find a chicken . zouahra ' s children looked on . they were beside themselves with longing . then , three - year - old lana began to cry . but there was nothing to be done . the other people were lucky , or maybe had some money , and their children could eat . the widows of al - mawasi are waiting for a new camp for unaccompanied women and their children to be completed . there they hope for food , a place to shelter out of the wind - the same way they hope that the killing might stop so that no more will be taken from them . with additional reporting by haneen abdeen and alice doyard