benjamin netanyahu responded with fury to the news that he might face an arrest warrant for war crimes and crimes against humanity . it was " a moral outrage of historic proportions ", he said . israel was " waging a just war against hamas , a genocidal terrorist organisation that perpetrated the worst attack on the jewish people since the holocaust ." in a bitter personal attack , mr netanyahu said karim khan , the chief prosecutor of the international criminal court ( icc ) was one of the " great antisemites in modern times ." mr khan , he said , was like judges in nazi germany who denied jews basic rights and enabled the holocaust . his decision to seek arrest warrants against israel ’ s prime minister and defence minister was " callously pouring gasoline on the fires of antisemitism that are raging around the world .’ mr netanyahu spoke english on the video that was released by his office . he does that when he wants his message to reach the foreign audience that matters most to him , in the us . reacting to the news , israeli defence minister , yoav gallant on tuesday described the arrest warrants against him and prime minister benjamin netanyahu as a " disgraceful " attempt to interfere in the war ." the attempt of the prosecutor of the international criminal court , karim khan , to reverse the creation will not succeed - the parallel of the prosecutor between the terrorist organization hamas and the state of israel is despicable and disgusting ." he said in a post on x . before adding : " the state of israel is not a party to the court and does not recognize its authority ." the outrage expressed by the prime minister , and echoed by israel ’ s political leadership , was generated by pages of carefully chosen legal language in a statement issued by mr khan , the icc chief prosecutor who is a british king ’ s counsel . word by word , line by line , they add up to a devastating series of allegations against the three most prominent leaders of hamas as well as israel ’ s prime minister and defence minister . a determination to apply international law and the laws of armed conflict to all parties , no matter who they are , lies at the heart of mr khan ’ s statement in which he lays out his justification for requesting arrest warrants . " no foot soldier , no commander , no civilian leader - no one - can act with impunity ." the law , he says , cannot be applied selectively . if that happens , " we will be creating conditions for its collapse ". it is the decision to hold both sides ’ conduct up to the template of international law that is causing so much anger , and not just in israel . us president joe biden said it was " outrageous " to apply for arrest warrants . there was " no equivalence - none - between israel and hamas ". hamas demanded the withdrawal of the allegations against its leaders , claiming that the icc ’ s prosecutor was " equating the victim with the executioner ". it said the request to issue arrest warrants for the israeli leadership came seven months too late , after " the israeli occupation committed thousands of crimes ". mr khan does not make direct comparisons between the two sides , except to lay out his claim that they have both committed a series of war crimes and crimes against humanity . he also emphasises that this latest war comes in the context of " an international armed conflict between israel and palestine , and a non - international armed conflict between israel and hamas ". the court treats palestine as a state as it has observer status at the united nations , which meant it was able to sign up to the rome statute which created the icc . mr netanyahu has declared that palestinians will never have independence on his watch . instead of seeing disgraceful and false parallels between , as israel ’ s president isaac herzog put it , " these atrocious terrorists and a democratically elected government of israel ", human rights groups have applauded the way that the icc prosecutor is seeking to apply the law to both sides . b ' tselem , a leading israeli human rights organisation , said the warrants marked " israel ’ s rapid decline into a moral abyss ". " the international community is signalling to israel that it can no longer maintain its policy of violence , killing and destruction without accountability ," it added . human rights campaigners have complained for many years that powerful western countries , led by the us , turn a blind eye to israeli violations of international law , even as they condemn and sanction other states who are not in their camp . the actions being taken by mr khan and his team are , they believe , long overdue . mr khan says that the three main leaders of hamas committed war crimes that include extermination , murder , hostage - taking , rape and torture . the men named are yahya sinwar , the hamas leader in gaza , mohammed deif , the commander of the qassam brigades , its military wing , and ismail haniyeh , head of the hamas political bureau . as part of their investigation , karim khan and his team interviewed victims and survivors of the 7 october attacks . he said hamas had assaulted fundamental human values : " the love within a family , the deepest bonds between a parent and a child were contorted to inflict unfathomable pain through calculated cruelty and extreme callousness ". israel , mr khan said , does have the right to defend itself . but " unconscionable crimes " did not " absolve israel of its obligation to comply with international humanitarian law ". the failure to do that , he said , justified issuing warrants for the arrest of mr netanyahu and defence minister yoav gallant for crimes including starvation of civilians as a weapon of war , murder , extermination , and intentional attacks on civilians . from the start of israel ’ s response to the hamas attacks of 7 october , president biden has issued a series of rebukes to israel , expressing concern that it was killing too many palestinian civilians and destroying too much civilian infrastructure in gaza . but in a careful balancing act with a close ally which he has always supported , mr biden and his administration have not spelt out in public about what they mean . mr khan makes his interpretation crystal clear . israel , he says , has chosen criminal means to achieve its war aims in gaza - " namely , intentionally causing death , starvation , great suffering , and serious injury " to civilians . a panel of judges at the icc now will consider whether to issue the arrest warrants . states signed up to the icc ’ s rome statute would then be obliged to detain the men if they had the chance . the 124 signatories do not include russia , china and the us . israel has not signed either . but the icc has ruled that it does have legal authority to prosecute criminal acts in the war because the palestinians are signatories . if the arrest warrants are issued , it would mean that mr netanyahu , israel ’ s longest - serving prime minister , would not be able to visit close western allies without risking arrest . uk prime minister rishi sunak said the icc ’ s actions were " not helpful to reaching a pause in the fighting , getting hostages out or humanitarian aid in ". but if the warrants are issued , britain would have to make the arrests , unless it could argue successfully that mr netanyahu had diplomatic immunity . an all - important exception for mr netanyahu and mr gallant is the us . the white house believes the icc does not have jurisdiction in the conflict , a position that might widen the split inside joe biden ’ s democratic party over the war . progressives have already welcomed the icc ’ s action . staunch allies of israel among the democrats might support republican moves to pass a law to sanction icc officials or ban them from the us . as rumours of impending indictments churned through europe , america and the middle east weeks ago , a group of republican senators issued the kind of threat to mr khan and his staff that they might have heard in a movie . " target israel and we will target you ... you have been warned ." yoav gallant would also be unable to travel freely . the words he used when announcing that israel would besiege gaza has been frequently quoted by critics of israel ’ s conduct . two days after the hamas attacks on 7 october , mr gallant said : " i have ordered a complete siege on the gaza strip . there will be no electricity , no food , no fuel , everything is closed … we are fighting human animals and we are acting accordingly ". mr khan writes in his statement that " israel has intentionally and systematically deprived the civilian population in all parts of gaza of objects indispensable to human survival ". famine , he says , is present in parts of gaza and imminent in others . israel denies there is a famine , claiming that food shortages are caused not by their siege - but by hamas thefts and un incompetence . if an arrest warrant is granted for ismail haniyeh , the head of the hamas political branch , he will have to think harder about his regular trips to meet senior arab leaders . he is likely to spend much more time at his base in qatar , which like israel , did not sign the rome statute that set up the icc . the other two accused hamas leaders , yahya sinwar and mohammed deif , are believed to be hiding somewhere inside gaza . an arrest warrant does not add much to the pressures on them . israel has been trying to kill them for the last seven months . the warrant would also put mr netanyahu in a category of accused leaders that also includes russian president vladmir putin , and late colonel muammar gaddafi of libya . mr putin faces an arrest warrant for the unlawful deportation and transfer of children from ukraine to russia . before he was killed by his own people , col gaddafi ’ s arrest warrant was for murder and persecution of unarmed civilians . it is not attractive company for benjamin netanyahu , the leader of a state that prides itself on its democracy .