the australian state of victoria has ruled that mps cannot wear keffiyeh scarves - a symbol of palestinian identity - in parliament . green party leaders asked for clarification after mps for the party were asked to remove their keffiyehs . in a joint ruling , both houses of the parliament of victoria said the scarf was a " political " symbol which mps were not permitted to wear . the ruling makes the victorian legislature one of the few in the world to enforce a ban on the item of clothing . on wednesday , upper house president shaun leane asked four green party mps who had been wearing keffiyehs to remove them . green party leader ellen sandell sought to clarify whether the ruling was a one - off or a permanent ban . in response , lower house speaker maree edwards said : “ political paraphernalia and badges are not allowed in the house . my ruling stands .” but mrs sandell argued that mps often wore items of clothing to show support for various causes , " all of which could arguably be seen as political ".“ an mp today is wearing a yellow pin , which could be perceived by some as support for the israeli military . others are wearing rainbow badges ," she added . the speaker declined to comment and said further clarification could be sought from her office . mp david southwick welcomed the ban , telling a local news outlet that his yellow pin , worn in support of israeli hostages in gaza , was " not even a comparison ". green mps have taken to social media to protest against the ruling . gabrielle de vietri wrote on x : " on nakba day , the victorian parliament has banned the keffiyeh - one of the only parliaments in the world to do so ." the nakba , which means " catastrophe ", is commemorated by palestinians every year on 15 may . on 14 may 1948 , israel declared independence , and in a war which began the next day , up to 750 , 000 palestinians who had lived on that land fled or were expelled from their homes . neither they nor their descendants have been allowed by israel to return . the keffiyeh comes in several designs and colours , and is thought to have originated among bedouin arabs as a head covering to protect from the elements . the black - and - white keffiyeh became associated with palestinian identity during the late 1930s . this year ' s nakba day comes as israel and hamas are at war in the gaza strip . israel launched its military campaign in gaza after hamas attacked nearby israeli communities on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and kidnapping 252 others . more than 35 , 230 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry .