us president joe biden says he expects iran to attack israel " sooner than later ", as fears grow of iranian retaliation over an air strike that killed top commanders early this month . israel has not admitted attacking an iranian consulate in syria but is widely believed to have been behind it . us officials have told cbs news , the bbc ' s us partner , that a major attack on israel could happen imminently . israel says it is ready to defend itself . mr biden told iran : " don ' t ." " we are devoted to the defence of israel . we will support israel ," mr biden said . " we will help defend israel and iran will not succeed ." iran backs hamas , the palestinian group fighting israel in gaza , as well as various proxy groups throughout the region , including some - such as hezbollah in lebanon - that frequently carry out strikes against the israelis . on friday , hezbollah said it had launched " dozens " of rockets from lebanon towards israel . an israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesman said around 40 missiles and two explosive drones had been launched . no casualties were reported and there were no indications of involvement from other actors . a us official told cbs the barrage was separate from any expected iranian attack on israel . bbc security correspondent frank gardner says iran is deliberately keeping the middle east and washington guessing . ever since the lethal 1 april strike on the consulate building in damascus , from which israel believes iran was directing its covert arms supplies to iranian proxies in lebanon and syria , iran ' s security establishment has been debating its response . this is all about calibration . hit too hard and israel will respond with devastating force . go too lightly and iran will risk being seen as weak and ineffective . from a tactical perspective , it makes no sense for iran to respond right now , when the region is on full alert and when the us has been telling the world what to expect . pragmatists in tehran and qom will be urging restraint , while hawks , including the ageing supreme leader , ayatollah khamenei , will be demanding a firm response . but iran does not want a full - scale war , nor do its neighbours on the arab side of the gulf . governments there have already asked iran for restraint . the question now , our correspondent says , is whether it is the hawks or the doves who prevail . the mounting tensions have led countries including the us , uk , india and australia to warn against travel to israel . germany called on its citizens to leave iran . the us state department also barred diplomatic staff and their families in israel from travelling outside the cities of tel aviv , jerusalem and beersheba . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has met members of his war cabinet amid the warnings . some israelis said they were not worried about a potential iranian attack . " we know that we are surrounded by enemies , in the south , in the north , the east and the west ," daniel kosman told afp news agency at a market in jerusalem . " we are not afraid , i can promise you . look around : people are going out ." the israeli government has not issued any new advice to its people on top of existing guidance to stock up on water , food for three days and essential medicine . israeli radio , however , reported local authorities had been told to prepare for the possibility of an attack , including by assessing the readiness of public shelters . last week , the israeli military cancelled home leave for combat troops , bolstered air defences and called up reservists . thirteen people were killed in the 1 april missile strike on the iranian consulate in damascus . they included senior iranian military leaders , among them brig gen mohammad reza zahedi , a senior commander of iran ' s elite quds force in syria and lebanon . israel has not commented but is widely considered to have carried out the attack . officials in several countries have been trying to dissuade iran from launching an attack , fearing it could spark a wider regional war . us secretary of state antony blinken has spoken to the foreign ministers of china , saudi arabia and turkey in an attempt to convince them to use their influence with iran . after meeting the commander of us central command on friday , israeli defence minister yoav gallant said the bond between the two countries had been strengthened by the threat , adding " we will know how to respond ". the war in gaza was sparked when hamas attacked israeli communities near the gaza strip , killing about 1 , 200 people , most of them civilians , and taking more than 250 hostage . israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 600 gazans , the majority of them civilians , have been killed during israel ' s campaign in gaza , the hamas - run health ministry says . the conflict has also seen israel trade almost daily fire across its northern border with hezbollah , while iran - backed groups in iraq and yemen have attempted to hit israeli territory as well as us bases in iraq and syria . yemen ' s houthi movement has also attacked shipping in the red sea , sinking at least one ship and prompting the us and uk to conduct air strikes on houthi targets in yemen .