apple has released a partial update to its iphone software which stops the palestinian flag emoji being suggested when users type the word " jerusalem ". the issue had sparked controversy , with critics noting the names of other cities do not prompt flag emojis to appear . both israel and the palestinians hold competing claims to the ancient city . apple previously told the bbc the flag ' s appearance when jerusalem was typed had been inadvertent . the issue , according to apple , related to unintended behaviour in a feature called predictive emoji . iphones can suggest emojis when words are typed in messages , and other apps . users noticed the flag started being suggested after the company rolled out ios 17 . 4 . 1 - the latest publicly available version of the software on which its mobile devices run . critics such as tv presenter rachel riley had demanded apple explain why the flag appeared , particularly when other cities do not produce flag emojis when typed . " showing double standards with respect to israel is a form of antisemitism ," she wrote on social media . apple ' s apparent resolution is currently only in the " developer beta " version of ios 17 . 5 released on tuesday . the apple developer programme allows programmers building apps to sign up for early releases of the software - called beta versions - so they can test out apps they are building on them . in the new update no emoji is suggested when a user types " jerusalem ", in line with what happens with other cities . it ' s not clear when the update will be released more widely , either as a public beta , or as an finished update to the general public . the status of jerusalem is one of the thorniest disputes in the conflict between israel and the palestinians . israel sees the whole of jerusalem as its eternal , undivided capital , while palestinians claim the eastern part as the capital of their hoped - for future state . east jerusalem , along with the west bank and gaza strip , were captured by israel from jordan and egypt in a war in 1967 . they have since been viewed internationally as occupied palestinian territory . there have been increased tensions in the middle east since the 7 october hamas attacks on israel , in which about 1 , 200 people , mostly civilians , were killed and more than 250 others were taken hostage . the subsequent israeli military operation in gaza has killed 33 , 729 people , mostly civilians , according to the hamas - run health ministry .