israel ' s soldiers are sharing footage of palestinian detentions in the occupied west bank , despite the army ' s pledge to act on previous misconduct revealed by the bbc . legal experts say the filming , and its posting online , could be a war crime . the bbc has analysed 45 photos and videos , which include those of detainees draped in israeli flags . the israel defense forces said soldiers have been disciplined or suspended in the event of " unacceptable behaviour ". it did not comment on the individual incidents or soldiers we identified . international law says detainees must not be exposed to unnecessary humiliation or public curiosity , yet human rights experts say the posting of detention footage does just that . in february , bbc verify reported on idf soldiers ' misconduct on social media during the war in gaza which began after a 7 october hamas attack on israel , which killed about 1 , 200 people . more than 252 others were taken hostage . more than 34 , 000 people have since been killed by israel ' s offensive in gaza , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . during our earlier investigation , we noticed - and began looking into - a similar pattern of behaviour in the west bank , which has experienced a spike in violence over the same period . despite the bbc ' s previous reporting on israeli soldiers ' social media misconduct , and the military ' s subsequent promise to act on our findings , a former israeli soldier , ori givati , says he is far from shocked to hear that this activity is continuing . a spokesperson for breaking the silence - an organisation for former and serving israeli soldiers which works to expose alleged wrongdoing in the israel defense forces ( idf ) - mr givati added that in fact he believed current far - right political rhetoric in the country is encouraging it further . " there are no repercussions . they [ israeli soldiers ] get encouraged and supported by the highest ministers of the government ," he said . and he says this plays into a mindset that the military already subscribes to . " the culture in the military , when it comes to palestinians , is that they are only targets . they are not human beings . this is how the military teaches you to behave ." israel has built about 160 settlements housing some 700 , 000 jews since it occupied the west bank and east jerusalem - land the palestinians want as part of a future state - in the 1967 middle east war . the majority of the international community considers the settlements illegal under international law , although israel disputes this . our analysis found that the 45 social media videos and photos that we examined were posted by 11 soldiers of the kfir brigade , which is the largest infantry brigade in the idf and mainly operates in the west bank . all 11 are , or were , serving soldiers , and did not hide their identity on social media . four are from a kfir brigade reservist battalion - the 9213 - whose area of operation appears to be in the northern part of the west bank , according to our analysis of their social media videos . we asked the idf about the actions of the individual soldiers we have named and whether they have been disciplined , but they did not respond . we also attempted to contact these soldiers on their public social media accounts to put our findings to them . one appears to have blocked us and the others did not reply at the time of writing . the most prolific of these soldiers posts under the name yohai vazana . many of his videos show his battalion entering homes at night and detaining palestinians - often binding their hands and blindfolding them . women are seen panicking as they are filmed without their headscarves . mr vazana - a self - proclaimed " digital creator " whose forearms bear tattoos saying " never forget never forgive , 7 / 10 " - often refers to his operations as " hunts ". his military insignia , visible in the videos , suggests he carries the rank of sergeant major . he has posted 22 videos and photos on facebook and tiktok , from what appear to be bodycam footage of patrols , showing the detention of palestinians . tiktok confirmed that two videos we highlighted , which had not been taken down on its platform , have now been removed for violating its guidelines which " make clear that we do not tolerate content that seeks to degrade victims of violent tragedies ". meta , the company that owns facebook , explained that it is reviewing the content and will remove any videos that violate its policies . this photo , a screenshot from one of yohai vazana ' s videos , shows members of his battalion forcefully entering a home and posing in front of a palestinian woman with a child . fellow soldier ofer bobrov features in a number of shots with mr vazana . captions on his videos often include the hashtag " 9213 ", suggesting he is from mr vazana ' s battalion . mr bobrov ' s videos of his military operations are posted alongside clips of soldiers dancing and partying , getting ready for patrols , and other snippets from their everyday life . one video posted on 12 february on tiktok includes several photos of a detainee blindfolded and bound on the floor as a soldier poses with the israeli flag behind him . another soldier from the same battalion , who goes by sammy ben online , has posted eight videos and one photo of palestinian detainees on instagram . the detained palestinians are frequently shown blindfolded and restrained , having been forced to either lie on the floor , or squat , with their hands bound behind their backs , in what are often referred to by military and law enforcement as " stress positions ". mr ben says in the posts that he and his fellow soldiers have detained " terrorists " and claim to have found hamas flags on them . israel - like the uk , us and other countries - proscribes hamas as a terrorist organisation . in one video , mr ben , who has also served with idf forces in gaza , mocks two detained palestinians , ordering them to say : " am yisrael chai ", meaning " the people of israel live ". ori dahbash is another member of the same battalion who has posted footage of military operations in the west bank , including a photo of a detainee that has also been shared by mr vazana . experts said the footage posted by the soldiers could violate international law . dr mark ellis , executive director of the international bar association , called for an investigation into the incidents in the footage , and for the idf to discipline the soldiers involved . international human rights lawyer sir geoffrey nice , who worked with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) between 1998 and 2006 , agreed with dr ellis , but was sceptical anyone would be held to account for their actions . in response to our investigation , the idf replied : " the idf holds its soldiers to a professional standard … and investigates when behavior is not in line with the idf ' s values . in the event of unacceptable behavior , soldiers were disciplined and even suspended from reserve duty . " additionally , soldiers are instructed to avoid uploading footage of operational activities to social media networks ." the idf ' s response did not acknowledge that it had pledged to act on our earlier findings on similar social media misconduct , in gaza . mr givati , former israeli commander in the west bank , said he felt ashamed and disgusted by israeli soldiers ' treatment of detainees . " we should treat them with the same dignity that we would like to be treated with ," he told the bbc . he said the behaviour reflected how he felt israeli society views palestinians , and called into question its claims to abide by international law . " we have no future as a society if we continue behaving this way ," he said . what do you want bbc verify to investigate ?