nancy pelosi , the former speaker of the us house of representatives , has urged protesters on college campuses to protest against hamas ' behaviour as well as israel ' s conduct of the gaza war . hundreds of people have been arrested on dozens of campuses across the us , where protests and encampments have sprung up in support of palestinians in gaza . ms pelosi , who is a close ally of us president joe biden , told the bbc there was " complete justification " for speaking out about the growing humanitarian crisis there and the impact on civilians of israel ' s bombardment was almost " unforgiveable ". she has also criticised the actions of the israeli government while arguing it has a right to self - defence , and is no fan of the prime minister , benjamin netanyahu . however , she said she wanted the demonstrators to reflect on their tactics and also condemn hamas ' s actions on 7 october . " we would like to see some of that enthusiasm recognise hamas as a terrorist organisation that did a barbaric thing in israel ," she said . ms pelosi had her speech at the oxford union in the uk interrupted by protesters on thursday night . demonstrators also dumped manure outside her own home in california . " i ' ve said to those [ protesters ]... do you care about what hamas has done , do you care about what happened in israel , would you not , if that happened here would we not have a response ?" the war in gaza began when hamas - led gunmen carried out an unprecedented attack on southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people - mostly civilians - and taking 253 others back to gaza as hostages . since then , at least 34 , 356 people - most of them children and women - have been killed in gaza , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . the un has warned of an impending humanitarian catastrophe and israel has faced accusations of limiting the amount of aid reaching civilians by land . activists in the us have been calling for universities to " divest from genocide " and to stop investing large school endowments in companies involved in weapons manufacturing and other industries supporting israel ' s war in gaza . israel is currently facing a case brought by south africa at the international court of justice alleging that it is committing genocide against the palestinians , an accusation israel has rejected as " baseless ". she said such protests on college campuses were a " way of life " in the us and that there was " complete justification " for objecting to what has been happening . " what ' s happening in gaza challenges the consciousness of the world ," she said . some of the protesters on us campuses have been accused of antisemitism . a number of jewish students have said they have felt unsafe at columbia and at other universities , although other jewish students have joined the demonstrations . ms pelosi said protesters needed to think about their tactics , asking : " what is their message , what is their purpose ?" she rejected the suggestion from the current leader of the house of representatives , mike johnson , that the national guard should be sent in to deal with the protests . universities have brought in police to force students to leave but some are negotiating with the demonstrators and say these talks are showing progress . the full interview with nancy pelosi will be broadcast on the sunday with laura kuenssberg show , at 09 : 00 bst on bbc one .