who wouldn ' t want a house on the beach ? for some on israel ' s far - right , desirable beachfront now includes the sands of gaza . just ask daniella weiss , 78 , the grandmother of israel ' s settler movement , who says she already has a list of 500 families ready to move to gaza immediately . " i have friends in tel aviv ," she says , " so they say , ' don ' t forget to keep for me a plot near the coast in gaza ,' because it ' s a beautiful , beautiful coast , beautiful golden sand ". she tells them the plots on the coast are already booked . mrs weiss heads a radical settler organisation called nachala , or homeland . for decades , she has been kickstarting jewish settlements in the israeli - occupied west bank and east jerusalem , on palestinian land captured by israel in the 1967 middle east war . some in the settler movement have cherished the dream - or pipedream - of returning to gaza since 2005 , when israel ordered a unilateral pullout , 21 settlements were dismantled and about 9 , 000 settlers were evacuated by the army . ( reporting from gaza at the time , i saw many who were literally dragged out .) many settlers saw all this as a betrayal by the state , and a strategic mistake . opinion polls suggest that most israelis oppose resettling gaza , and it is not government policy , but since the hamas attacks on 7 october it is being talked about out loud - by some of the loudest and most extreme voices in israel ' s government . mrs weiss proudly shows me a map of the west bank with pink dots indicating jewish settlements . the dots are scattered all over the map , eating away at land where palestinians hope - or hoped - to build their state . there are about 700 , 000 jewish settlers in these areas now and settler numbers are rising fast . the vast majority of the international community considers settlements illegal under international law , including the united nations security council . israel disputes this . we meet daniella at her home in the west bank settlement of kedumim , where red - roofed houses are spread over hilltops and valleys . she ' s in constant motion despite having an arm in plaster . her vision for the future of gaza - now home to 2 . 3 million palestinians , many of them starving - is that it will be jewish . " gaza arabs will not stay in the gaza strip ," she says . " who will stay ? jews ." she claims that palestinians want to leave gaza and that other countries should take them in - although in a lengthy interview , she rarely uses the word " palestinian ". " the world is wide ," she says . " africa is big . canada is big . the world will absorb the people of gaza . how we do it ? we encourage it . palestinians in gaza , the good ones , will be enabled . i ' m not saying forced , i say enabled because they want to go ." there is no evidence that palestinians want to leave their homeland - although many may now dream of escaping temporarily , to save their lives . for most palestinians , there is no way out . the borders are tightly controlled by israel and egypt , and no foreign countries have offered refuge . i put it to her that her comments sound like a plan for ethnic cleansing . she does not deny it . " you can call it ethnic cleansing . i repeat again , the arabs do not want , normal arabs do not want to live in gaza . if you want to call it cleansing , if you want to call it apartheid , you choose your definition . i choose the way to protect the state of israel . " a few days later , daniella weiss is selling the idea of a return to gaza over cake and popcorn at a small gathering , hosted by another settler in their living room . she has a projector , showing a new map of gaza , complete with settlements , and leaflets entitled " go back to gaza ". " people are asking me what the odds are this will happen ?" she says . " what were the odds back then when i came to these dark mountains and made it into this heaven ?" the handful in attendance seem already convinced . " i want to go back immediately ," says sarah manella . " when they call me , i will go back to gush katif [ the former israeli settlement bloc in gaza ]." what about the people who live there , we ask . " the area is empty now , " she replies . " now you don ' t need to think where to put the settlement , you only need to come back and put a new settlement ." gaza is far from empty , but much of it has been erased after almost six months of relentless israeli bombardment . it is the " greatest open - air graveyard " in the world , in the words of the eu ' s foreign policy chief , josep borrell . more than 32 , 000 palestinians have been killed , according to the hamas - run health ministry in gaza , most of them women and children . the world health organization regards the ministry ' s data as credible . for some in the israeli cabinet , the palestinian territory - now drenched in blood - is ripe for resettlement . that includes israel ' s hard - right national security minister itamar ben gvir - a settler himself . in late january , he made his way through a packed conference hall , slowed by embraces and handshakes . he was among friends - about 1 , 000 ultranationalists pushing for a return to gaza at the event entitled settlement brings security . mr ben gvir , who favours " encouraging emigration ", was among a dozen cabinet ministers in attendance . " it ' s time to go back home ," he said from the stage , to loud applause . " it ' s time to return to the land of israel . if we don ' t want another 7 october , we need to return home and control the land ." in the shade of a sprawling tree , yehuda shimon is playing with his two young sons , who are in hammocks , hanging from the branches . he has raised 10 children here in a settler outpost in the west bank called havat gilad , or gilad ' s farm , near the palestinian city of nablus . all around him there are palestinian villages , the nearest 500m away . there is no contact between them , he says . shimon has lived in gaza in the past and claims a god - given right to return . " we must do it . it ' s part of israel area ," he says . " this is the land that god gave us , and you couldn ' t go to god and tell him , ' ok you gave me , and i gave to other people .' no . i believe in the end we will go back to gaza ." i ask what this means for the palestinians . " they have 52 other places to go in the world ," he says , " 52 muslim countries ". he says the new gaza will be " another tel aviv ". outposts like his are multiplying in the west bank , along with larger settlements , fragmenting palestinian territory and stoking tension . settler attacks on palestinians have surged since 7 october according to the un , which has long condemned settlements as " an obstacle to peace ". and now settler organisations have their eyes on gaza once again . is there a real prospect of settlers reaching the beachfront in gaza ? a seasoned israeli journalist told me it won ' t happen . " calls to resettle gaza won ' t be translated into policy ," he said . then he added : " famous last words ." additional reporting by wietske burema , goktay koraltan and ariel tagar