london has become a " no - go zone for jews " during weekend pro - palestinian marches , the government ' s counter - extremism commissioner has said . robin simcox also urged ministers to " be willing to accept higher legal risk " when tackling extremism . rishi sunak ' s spokesman said the pm took concerns of extremism " extremely seriously " and noted a rise in both antisemitism and anti - muslim hatred . march organisers said jewish people did not need to be scared of the events . writing in the telegraph , mr simcox said mr sunak had been right to point to an increase in extremist disruption . he said he now needed the " policies to meet the scale of the challenge ". mr simcox said the creation of a new definition of extremism , which the bbc understands will be set out next week , had a " clear purpose " and would be used " to guide future decisions over who the government does and does not engage with and fund ". he also said the government already had " more power to tackle extremism than it sometimes thinks ". " we have not betrayed democracy if extremists are no longer able to operate television channels ," he said . " and we will not have become an authoritarian state if london is no longer permitted to be turned into a no - go zone for jews every weekend ." " all these things and more have become normalised in the uk ," mr simcox added . a spokeswoman for mr sunak said that mr simcox was " referring to intimidation by a minority at protests in london at weekends ". " we have sadly seen an increase in anti - muslim hatred as well as antisemitism ," she said . " the pm would continue to urge those taking part to be mindful of the upset and distress it can cause . peaceful protest is fundamental to our democracy ." last month , the community security trust charity , which aims to provide security to the uk ' s jewish community , published figures suggesting reports of antisemitic incidents in the uk had reached a record high last year . a spokesperson for the campaign against antisemitism told bbc news its own recent polling " corroborates mr simcox ' s warning , finding that 90 % of british jews say that they would avoid travelling to a city centre if a major anti - israel demonstration was taking place there ". jonathan wittenberg , senior rabbi of masorti judaism uk , said that he felt the demonstrations were " partly " pro - palestinian but had " very minute , more radical elements at heart ", which are " very intimidating for jews ". he told bbc radio 4 ' s pm programme : " when they are taking place , and in the aftermath , it is very frightening and disturbing for ... the jewish citizens of london and that is not at all as it should be . " on the other hand , that doesn ' t make the whole of london , all the time , a no - go zone for jews ." rabbi wittenberg said he felt many demonstrators were not protesting against jews but do want to express concern for palestinian people and backing for " a political , two - state solution " - which he also supports . but he said israel was " really the only country in the world where people protest against its very existence " and it was " very difficult to cope with that as a jew because its our only country in the world ". the issue of extremism has risen on the political agenda in the aftermath of claims by lee anderson , a former tory deputy chairman , that the mayor of london sadiq khan was controlled by " islamists ". mr sunak said the comments were " wrong ", suspended him from the party and gave a speech in which he warned of forces " trying to tear the country apart ". john rees , a stop the war coalition national officer , insisted there was " absolutely no need " for jewish people to be frightened by the demonstrations . he said he understood why some might feel scared , but blamed mr sunak for frightening the jewish community , saying the prime minister had been " irresponsible ". " of course , if the government decides to whip up that kind of fear , then people are going to feel that , of course they are ," he told bbc radio 4 ' s today programme . the director of the palestine solidarity campaign , ben jamal , echoed these comments , describing mr simcox ' s remarks as " disgraceful " and said there are " members of the jewish community " who attend the pro - gaza rallies . brendan cox , whose labour mp wife jo cox was murdered by neo - nazi extremist thomas mair a week before the brexit referendum in 2016 , said mr simcox and the government were using extremism as a political tool . " the government has a responsibility not to play politics with extremism ," he said on x , formerly twitter . " today its ' advisor on extremism ' manages to write an entire article ... which focuses on just one type of extremism and refuses to even mention anti - muslim hate - despite an explosion in its prevalence . " if the government looks like it is using extremism as a political tool in the run - up to an election it will set back what should be a shared national goal . please don ' t do this . it ' s too important ." mr simcox was appointed to his advisory role by then - home secretary priti patel in july 2022 , having served in an interim capacity since march 2021 . he is a former margaret thatcher fellow at the heritage foundation , an ultra - conservative us - based think tank . since the start of the conflict in gaza , regular pro - palestinian marches have taken place in london . last month , home secretary james cleverly urged the groups to end their protests saying " you ' ve made your point ". in an interview with the times , he questioned whether the demonstrations added " value " to their call for an end to fighting in gaza . the groups have argued that anti - muslim " hysteria " from some mps and pressure from the government have provoked the metropolitan police into heavy - handed and " discriminatory " policing of " peaceful mass protests ". update 19th march : this article was updated on the morning of publication to include reaction to robin simcox ' s comments , including those questioning the accuracy or appropriateness of suggesting that london had been " permitted to be turned into a no - go zone for jews every weekend ." on 19th march we added a response from ben jamal of the palestine solidarity campaign , who made the point that jewish people attend the pro - gaza marches .