after the events at al - rashid street in gaza , in which more than 100 people were reported killed after a rush on an aid convoy , the international community is under pressure to tackle the growing crisis of hunger in the territory , as fergal keane reports from jerusalem . they die in all kinds of places and ways . broken under the rubble of their homes , blasted by explosives , punctured by high velocity bullets , cut open by flying shards of metal . and now - as the war enters its fifth month - death from hunger has come to haunt gaza . it is essential to know the when , what and how of the tragedy at al - rashid street . although the precise facts require an independent investigation of a kind not likely in gaza under current conditions , that should not distract from trying to answer why people risked their lives to gather in the pre - dawn darkness in the middle of a war zone . the refugees were there because they were desperate to feed their families . they died by bullets and trampling - we do not yet know in what proportion - simply because they wanted to live . that is a cruel irony . eighty - five per cent of the population of gaza is now displaced . the war has dismantled all normal economic activity and food supplies . water and electricity supplies have been disrupted . hospitals struggle without adequate medicine or power . for the last week the un - citing concerns over security - has said it is unable to deliver aid to northern gaza . these are fundamental facts to bear in mind when trying to understand the tragedy . from the outset the international community - expressed in public statements - has regarded israel as having the primary responsibility for ensuring aid can be delivered safely . but , after months of war there is no sign of what the un calls " an enabling environment " in which large volumes of aid can be delivered to those who need it . it is not as if there has been absence of evidence of a mounting humanitarian crisis . witness the statements made by the un over several months . " we are already seeing a cascading collapse in water , sewage , and sanitation services , telecoms , food shortages , and healthcare ," the un ' s human rights office reported on 15 november . on 2 december , the office for the co - ordination of humanitarian affairs reported : " un humanitarians on monday said that aid teams had only ' extremely limited ' movement and access to the north was " now entirely blocked ." twelve days later the un security council adopted resolution 2720 calling on " the parties to the conflict to allow , facilitate and enable the immediate , safe and unhindered delivery of humanitarian assistance at scale directly to palestinian civilians throughout that territory ." on 26 january , the international court of justice ( icj ) required israel " take immediate and effective measures to enable the provision of urgently needed basic services and humanitarian assistance ." by 9 february , director of the un relief and welfare agency ( unrwa ) phillipe lazzarini was accusing israel of blocking food for 1 . 1 million palestinians in gaza . according to the un , 500 lorries of aid are required each day . the daily average has been 90 . the aid falling by parachute from the skies in recent days is welcomed on the ground , but it is also a symbol of the failure of the aid effort . there are roads leading into gaza from israel and egypt along which lorries carrying huge amounts of aid could travel - if those roads were safe . the continuing war , and the chaotic conditions it has spawned , mean many lorry drivers will not risk their lives . civilians looting aid , and criminal gangs stealing aid to sell , are part of what one un official termed the " mogadishu - like " conditions that may be developing - a reference to the chaos that enveloped the somali capital during the civil conflict of the early 1990s . the hamas - run police force in gaza is unwilling to escort aid convoys because its members reportedly fear being shot by the israelis . as for hamas ' s leaders , having provoked this war they have vanished and are now fighting to survive in the tunnels and ruins of gaza . israel says it is facilitating aid delivery and that , for example , there were three escorted deliveries on the nights prior to the tragedy at al - rashid street . it has blamed the un saying aid is stacked up inside the northern border and the un hasn ' t " turned up " to distribute the supplies . it is also deeply mistrustful of unrwa - accusing the agency of being infiltrated by hamas . in the wake of the allegations unrwa sacked 12 employees accused of either being involved in the 7 october attacks in israel or helping in the detention of hostages . israel ' s defence minister yoav gallant said the idf would no longer deal with the agency . " unrwa has lost legitimacy ," he said , " and can no longer function as a un body ." at the beginning of the conflict , days after hamas killed more than 1 , 200 people in israel and kidnapped 250 others , mr gallant ordered a complete blockade of the gaza strip . " there will be no electricity , no food , no fuel , everything is closed … we are fighting human animals and we are acting accordingly ," he said . that position changed under us pressure with president joe biden announcing a deal on 19 october under which israel and egypt allowed aid into gaza . some supplies began to flow but there were still reports of growing hunger . there were repeated entreaties from western politicians including uk foreign secretary lord cameron . on 9 january , he said he was worried israel had " taken action that might be in breach of international law " - adding he wanted israel to restore water supplies to gaza . a month later - on 12 february - he told the uk ' s house of lords that israel had to make sure food , water and shelter were available to people in gaza " because if they don ' t do that , that would be a breach of international humanitarian law ". in the wake of al - rashid street he called for an urgent investigation . " this must not happen again ," he said . but the evidence from many civilians in gaza is they live in constant fear of violent death and - increasingly - starvation . in time the world will ask itself why the un security council , comprising the most powerful nations on earth , did not ensure the delivery of life - saving aid to hundreds of thousands of desperate people in gaza . this after nearly eight decades of un humanitarian operations around the world . there is no shortage of experience or resources . addressing the security council a week before al - rashid street incident , secretary general of aid organisation medecins sans frontieres christopher lockyear spoke of a situation where " the laws and the principles we collectively depend on to enable humanitarian assistance are now eroded to the point of becoming meaningless … the humanitarian response in gaza today is an illusion ." it is still too early to speak of the tragic events of 29 february as a turning point . but , the deaths of so many in such terrible circumstances have added to the growing pressure for a ceasefire deal that would allow food to reach the hungry . the coming days will tell if those hopes can be realised .