an 82 - year - old grandmother has taken on one of the tour de france ' s most famous mountains to raise funds for aid to gaza . anne jones , from lewisham , south london , rode 20km ( 12 miles ) up mont ventoux in southern france to support amos trust ' s gaza appeal . she battled hail , rain and fog as she cycled for six hours to the climb ' s summit at 1 , 910m ( 6 , 270ft ) above sea level . ms jones raised £ 13 , 000 for the appeal . the grandmother - of - six said she was " delighted " to have completed the feat and hoped it would change the " assumptions " people make when they see " an old face ". " i want to encourage people to get out there ," said the retired psychotherapist and social worker . " there are a lot of people who get to 65 and think their age means they can ' t do things but my message is they can ." ms jones was first inspired to take on the mountain known as the " beast of provence " during a cycling trip last summer with amos trust director chris rose . she said she felt she had a " responsibility " to tackle the feat for the people of palestine . " i would rather use my time this way than wringing my hands in despair and anguish ," she wrote on her justgiving page . " over 11 , 000 palestinian children killed is 11 , 000 too many , just as each israeli killed is one too many ." in a statement released after the hamas attack on israel on 7 october 2023 , the amos trust said it " condemn [ ed ]" both the " brutality of hamas ' s attack " and " the severity of israel ' s retribution ". a team of people , including mr rose and megan williams from amos trust , accompanied ms jones for the ride . ms williams said the octogenarian was an " inspiration to us all ". ms jones said she had also received a lot of support from family , friends and people in gaza . " there ' s been so many donations , it ' s really quite overwhelming and that was another motivation because you don ' t want to let people down ," she added . ms jones now plans to continue her volunteer work in calais where she offers english lessons and helps refugees mend their clothes . she has previously volunteered in places including india and romania . listen to the best of bbc radio london on sounds and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your story ideas to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk