israel says it has approved the opening of two humanitarian routes into gaza , to allow more aid into the territory . the erez gate in northern gaza will be temporarily re - opened for the first time since the start of the war and ashdod port will also be opened for humanitarian deliveries . more aid from jordan will be allowed to enter via the kerem shalom crossing . it comes hours after joe biden spoke with israel ' s pm for the first time since seven aid workers were killed . according to a readout of a phone call between the us president and benjamin netanyahu , mr biden warned that israel must take steps to prevent civilian harm and humanitarian suffering if it wanted to maintain us support . it is understood that the re - opening of the corridors was specifically requested by mr biden in the phone call . mr biden essentially gave the israeli government an ultimatum - take concrete steps to prevent civilian harm and ensure safety for aid workers or us policy in respect of gaza would change . this was a significant shift in us policy - the first time that washington has attempted to leverage american aid in order to influence the conduct of the war in gaza . seven people working for the food aid charity world central kitchen ( wck ) were killed in an israeli strike in gaza on monday . the wck convoy they were travelling in was hit by an israeli air strike as it travelled south along the israeli - designated coastal aid route , just after they had unloaded more than 100 tonnes of food from a barge at a warehouse in deir al - balah . the vehicles were around 2 . 5km ( 1 . 5 miles ) apart and all three were hit during the attack . israel ' s military apologised and called the attack a tragic mistake . it has promised a full investigation . the us national security council said it welcomed the steps announced by israel , which it said " must now be fully and rapidly implemented ". us policy , it added , would be determined by the steps israel took to protect " innocent civilians and the safety of aid workers ". on thursday , us secretary of state antony blinken said there would be a change of us policy if it did not see changes from israel . the move to open israel ' s northern border crossing with gaza in erez is particularly significant , after israel ' s foreign minister eli cohen told israeli media in november that there would be " no more contact between israel and gaza ". in another development , former us president donald trump said israel should get its war in gaza " over with " in order to achieve peace and " stop killing people ". mr trump - a staunch ally of israel - made the comments in a radio interview . he said that israel was " absolutely losing the pr war " and should stop broadcasting video footage of its air strikes in gaza . but he added that israel had to finish what it had started . mr trump , who is expected to be the republican party ' s candidate in november ' s presidential election , has previously criticised joe biden for being insufficiently supportive of israel . mr netanyahu has faced rising international and domestic anger at israel ' s conduct in gaza . a long line of lorries filled with aid has been backing up on the egyptian side of the border with rafah for months as they can only enter gaza after a complex and bureaucratic series of israeli checks . the absence of adequate humanitarian supplies has forced jordan , the us and uk to drop aid from the air - the least effective way to deliver humanitarian supplies . air drops have also proved dangerous - palestinians have been crushed when parachutes fail and have drowned as they try to swim to pallets that have landed in the sea . a recent un - backed report offered evidence that the humanitarian catastrophe in gaza was turning into a man - made famine . and the un ' s most senior human rights official , volker türk , recently told the bbc that there was a " plausible " case that israel was using starvation as a weapon of war in gaza . israel denies impeding the entry of aid or its distribution inside gaza , and blames un agencies on the ground for failing to get the aid that is allowed in to the people who need it . more than 196 aid workers have been killed in gaza since october , according to the us - funded aid worker security database , which records major incidents of violence against aid personnel . not all were killed while delivering aid . on thursday gps was blocked across swathes of israel in order to disrupt missiles and drones , as tensions rose with iran . reservists have been called up to bolster air defence units and the israel defense forces also announced it was halting all leave for soldiers serving with combat units . iran has vowed to respond after a strike it believes israel carried out on its consulate building in syria on monday killed 13 people , including a senior general . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas - led gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says .