famed for its palaces , tiled mosques and minarets , isfahan - where blasts were heard overnight - is also a major centre for military industry . iran ' s third - biggest city , nicknamed " nesf - e - jahaan " or half the world , is located in the centre of the country near the zagros mountains . the city and its region are home to drone and ballistic missile factories . relatively nearby is the natanz nuclear facility , the most important centre for iran ' s nuclear enrichment programme . with the name isfahan tied to iran ' s nuclear facilities , the symbolism of an attack there will not have gone unnoticed . if this was an israeli attack it seems that the government of benjamin netanyahu was sending a message to iran that it has the capability to strike those sensitive targets in the province whilst refraining from actually doing so at this stage . iranian officials were quick to announce that the nuclear facilities in isfahan province were " completely secure ". iran , which does not have nuclear weapons , denies it is attempting to use its civilian nuclear programme to become a nuclear armed state . however there are conflicting reports of what happened overnight . iran ' s space agency spokesman hossein dalirian said " several " drones had been " successfully shot down " and rejected reports that a missile attack had taken place . later , foreign minister hossein amir - abdollahian told state tv that " mini drones " had not caused any damage or casualties in isfahan despite reports by " pro - israeli media ". some iranian media had reported three explosions near isfahan airport and a military air base . iran ' s army commander - in - chief abdolrahim mousavi attributed the explosions to " the firing of anti - aircraft defence systems on a suspicious object ". other iranian media and officials said the drones had been launched by " infiltrators ". the iranian air force has a base at isfahan airport , which houses some of its ageing f - 14 fighter jets . iran first acquired the us - made f - 14s in the 1970s under the shah and has managed to keep them flying since then . it is the only country in the world still flying the fighters of top gun fame operationally . isfahan has also come under suspected israeli attack before . in january 2023 iran blamed israel for a drone attack on an ammunition factory in a central part of the city . the attack was reported to have been carried out using quadcopters - small drones with four propellers . similar drone attacks have been reported in other parts of iran in recent years . israel has not confirmed it was behind any of these attacks . hamish de bretton - gordon , a chemical weapons expert and former head of the uk and nato nuclear forces , told the bbc that targeting isfahan was " very significant " because of the number of military bases in and around it . he said the reported missile strike was also " fairly near to where we believe iran is trying to develop nuclear weapons so perhaps a nod to that ". the israeli strike was " very much a demonstration of capability and perhaps intent ", he said , noting that almost all of the more than 300 drones and missiles iran fired at israel last weekend had been intercepted , while israel had fired " one , perhaps two " missiles at a target and caused " damage ". iranian officials were playing the attack down , he said , because they did not want to publicise israel ' s success in getting through iran ' s " antiquated " air defence systems . " israel militarily vastly overmatches iran and this is a demonstration of that ," he said . " iran would far more like to fight in the shadows using its terror groups and proxies rather than go toe - to - toe with israel conventionally where it knows it would get a real hammering ." russia - which has increasingly close military cooperation with iran - has communicated to israel that iran " does not want escalation ", russian foreign minister sergei lavrov said on friday . " there have been telephone contacts between the leadership of russia and iran , our representatives and the israelis . we made it very clear in these conversations , we told the israelis that iran does not want escalation ," mr lavrov told russian radio . mr de bretton - gordon said iran had " slightly restored pride " after attacking israel last weekend , following the suspected israeli missile strike on its consulate in syria on 1 april , and did not want to escalate further . " it knows that israel is absolutely determined and seems to have the backing of the us and others . iran can ' t really rely on much help , perhaps a little bit from russia which is very keen to keep the focus on the middle east and not ukraine , but apart from that it is a little bit isolated ," he said . " the last thing they want to do is get some of their key facilities hit ."