ireland has announced plans to officially recognise a palestinian state . it comes as the three leaders of the coalition government - taoiseach simon harris , tánaiste micheál martin and green party minister eamon ryan - held a press conference at government buildings in dublin on wednesday morning . mr harris said that it was an " important and historic day for ireland and for palestine ". israel have recalled their envoys to ireland , claiming that ireland ' s decision will encourage terrorism and more instability . norway and spain have also announced on wednesday that they will recognise a palestinian state . currently , eight eu member states recognise palestinian statehood , the most recent being sweden in 2014 . it comes just days after the international criminal court applied for arrest warrants for israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and hamas ' s leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , for war crimes . speaking on wednesday , mr harris said that he was " confident that further countries will join us in taking this important step in the coming weeks ". he said that a two - state solution , whereby independent israeli and palestinian states exist side - by - side , was the " the only credible path to peace and security ”. referencing the foundation of the irish state , mr harris said “ from our own history we know what it means , recognition is an act of powerful political and symbolic value ”. he said that the decision was taken " to offer hope and encouragement to the people of palestine at one of their darkest hours ". the palestinian militant group hamas launched an unprecedented assault on israel on 7 october , with hundreds of gunmen infiltrating communities near the gaza strip . about 1 , 200 people were killed , and more than 250 were taken to gaza as hostages , according to israeli tallies . more than 35 , 000 palestinians in gaza have so far been killed by the israeli military in response , gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry says . also on wednesday morning , israel announced it would recall its envoys to ireland and norway " for urgent consultations "." i am sending ireland and norway a clear message : israel will not back down against those who undermine its sovereignty and endanger its security ," foreign minister israel katz said ." today ’ s decision sends a message to the palestinians and the world : terrorism pays ," he said ." after the hamas terror organisation carried out the largest massacre of jews since the holocaust , after committing heinous sexual crimes witnessed by the world , these countries chose to reward hamas and iran by recognizing a palestinian state ," mr katz said ." this distorted step by these countries is an injustice to the memory of the victims of 7 / 10 , a blow to efforts to return the 128 hostages , and a boost to hamas and iran ' s jihadists , which undermines the chance for peace and questions israel ’ s right to self - defence ." hamas , which controls gaza and is currently at war with israel , said wednesday ' s announcements would be a " turning point in the international position on the palestinian issue ". in a statement to afp , bassem naim , a senior hamas figure , said the " brave resistance " of the palestinian people was behind the move . hamas ' s rival , the palestinian authority ( pa ) - which controls parts of the israeli - occupied west bank - said norway , spain and ireland had demonstrated their " unwavering commitment " to " delivering the long overdue justice to the palestinian people ." addressing the " people of israel ", mr harris said : " ireland is resolute and unequivocal in recognising the state of israel and israel ’ s right to exist securely and in peace with its neighbours ."" let me be clear that ireland condemns the barbaric massacre carried out by hamas on 7 october last ," he said . mr harris called for the release of hostages taken by hamas " to the arms of their loved ones ", but added that " hamas is not the palestinian people "." a two state solution is the only way out of the generational cycles of violence retribution and resentment ," he said . tánaiste micheál martin said that ireland ' s decision was a " clear and immutable statement of our deeply - held belief that there can be no peace in the middle east until the israeli and palestinian peoples alike enjoy the same rights to self - determination , statehood , peace , security and dignity ". he added that the move was not " a hostile act towards the state of israel "." we acknowledge the heartbreak , loss and anguish of the israeli people ," he said . green party leader eamon ryan said that ireland had “ learnt the hard way , that violence against innocent civilians to try and achieve political aims , can , and must never win "." whether that be a car bomb on the streets of omagh or jerusalem , be that a rocket landing in tel aviv , or a no warning blast in a birmingham pub , be that an assault on the kibbutz , or a bomb dropped from a jet fighter onto a refugee camp or a gaza hospital , it is all wrong ," he said . the israeli embassy in ireland has said that it views the move to recognise palestine as " undermining its sovereignty and security " and as " damaging to our bilateral relations ". it said the israeli government has recalled its ambassador in dublin dana erlich " temporarily for consultations "." we are disappointed by the irish government ' s decision on recognition , which follows worrying initiatives and statements in recent months ," it said in a statement . dup mp ian paisley said the irish government ' s move was an attempt to appeal to the " extreme elements in irish society ". in a statement , he said : " the announcement by the dublin prime minister to recognise the state of palestine - even though he could not identify that state accurately on a map - will unfortunately only play into the hands of extremist , anti - jewish and anti - israel factions . " ireland should brace itself for a run of abuse against people and businesses associated with israel ," he continued . " what is atrocious is that the announcement this morning did not have one word of condemnation of hamas terrorism on 7 october ." however , taoiseach simon harris and tánaiste micheál martin both condemned the " barbaric massacre " carried out by hamas last october in their public statements . both leaders also called again for the release of all hostages in gaza . in a statement , sinn féin president mary lou mcdonald td said the recognition " must be the first step in the government playing a leading international role in assisting the creation of an independent and sovereign palestinian state ".“ the government must follow today ’ s announcement by utilising every tool at their disposal to hold israel to account and to demand full adherence to international law ,” she said .