while the media ' s glare in the middle east this past week was diverted to iran ' s dramatic missile and drone attack on israel , there has been no let - up in fighting in gaza . dozens of palestinians were killed daily - including many children , according to figures from the hamas - run health ministry . it now says israel has killed more than 34 , 000 people in gaza since the start of the war . as israel ' s forces continue with their efforts to destroy hamas , they have conducted small - scale , often deadly operations , from the top to the bottom of the territory over the past week . on tuesday , in the middle of gaza , relatives clutching limp and bloodstained bodies of small boys and girls rushed from al - maghazi refugee camp to al - aqsa martyrs ' hospital in nearby deir al - balah . medics at the hospital said that at least 12 people were killed and some 30 injured by shelling in al - maghazi . " they were playing in the street . why were they struck ? they weren ' t in any position close to israeli forces ," one man told the bbc . another added : " they were just playing . they were in the market with people coming and going normally ." israel ' s military has not commented on what happened there , but this week in gaza the central refugee camps have been its main focus . it said it was " eliminating terrorists and destroying terrorist infrastructure " such as attack tunnels and military compounds used by armed hamas fighters in " precise " action . after israeli forces were reported to have left another camp , nuseirat , late on wednesday , residents began trickling back to inspect the damage to their homes . " we have no place to stay , 90 % of the houses are destroyed ," one father told us despairingly as he picked his way through the new piles of rubble . in the very north of gaza , israel ' s tanks rolled back into beit hanoun , which troops had left weeks earlier . israel said it was targeting hamas and islamic jihad operatives based at schools where displaced families were living . locals talked of men being stripped and detained . footage has also emerged of israeli strikes in parts of gaza city , in the north , and rafah , on the border with egypt , where hundreds of thousands of palestinians live in tents after fleeing the fighting elsewhere . israeli defence analysts say that the military is carrying out targeted operations against hamas , in line with a switch to lower - intensity fighting that was agreed with the us . earlier this month , israel withdrew most ground forces from gaza , leaving just one brigade to secure a line that splits the enclave into two parts - north and south . while it has since been announced that two reservist brigades are being called up , and some soldiers have been deployed across the border , the prevailing opinion is that a planned ground offensive in rafah is still some way off . " i don ' t think anything is imminent ," says prof chuck freilich , a former israeli deputy national security adviser , now based at the institute for national security studies in tel aviv . " i don ' t think there ' s the force there for conducting a major operation in rafah ." israel has promised to root out remaining hamas battalions in rafah - the one gazan city where it has not yet launched a ground offensive . it believes that some of the remaining 130 - plus hostages snatched from southern israel during the deadly hamas attacks on 7 october , which also killed more than 1 , 200 people , are held there . but prof freilich says for " the full - on attack that people were talking about you ' d need two things : to move out all the refugees and then to call up some of those reserves ". " between those , it ' s at least a couple of weeks . and now there ' s the [ week - long jewish ] passover holiday ." the us and other allies point out that a large - scale invasion could deepen an already dire humanitarian crisis . amid miserable living conditions and the continuous threat to rafah , many gazans stuck there long to return home to the north of the territory . but on monday , israel ' s military renewed warnings for them not to make the journey , a day after witnesses said its forces had opened fire on crowds heading along a main coastal road . killing five people . the idf did not comment directly on that incident , but an israeli military spokesman said afterwards that palestinians should stay in southern gaza because the north is a " dangerous combat zone ". " we have dreamt of returning home since we left in the early months of the war ," amr daoudi told us back in rafah . " but for now we have put it out of our thoughts ." more than six months of fighting have flattened vast tracts of the north . israel ' s restrictions on aid have also left some 300 , 000 who remained there through the war on the brink of famine , according to the united nations . international pressure on israel in the wake of the killing of seven aid workers from us charity world central kitchen on 1 april led to a string of announcements on increasing relief to gaza , notably opening up the ashdod commercial port and a new northern crossing . while aid concerns have been overshadowed , in the past week , by fears of a wider regional war , there have been constant updates on developments - israeli defence officials declaring the arrival of shipments of flour destined for newly reopening bakeries , for example . anecdotal evidence , including social media footage of grilled meat being sold in jabalia camp for the first time in months , has also circulated , suggesting food is becoming more easily available . however , aid agencies say that far more needs to be done to reverse critical shortages . as the un launched a flash appeal to raise $ 2 . 8bn ( â £ 2 . 3bn ) in funding , mainly for gaza , a senior official from its humanitarian office complained of lingering access problems , particularly to reach the north . " we are dealing with this dance where we do one step forward , two steps backwards ; or two steps forward and one step backward ," says andrea de domenico , who heads the un humanitarian office for palestinian territories . if israel ' s response to iran ' s recent strikes is now over , drawing a line under the latest round of violence between these two old enemies , the media and foreign players are likely to increase their scrutiny of goings - on in gaza once again . already , we got a hint of this when the uk foreign secretary david cameron came to express solidarity with israel and try to reduce tensions after the iranian attacks of 13 - 14 april . " the real need is to refocus back on hamas , back on the hostages , back on getting the aid back in , back on getting a pause in the conflict in gaza ," he said , ahead of meetings with israeli and palestinian leaders . for now , international mediation efforts to secure a new truce have largely stalled . the main obstacle remains that israel will discuss a temporary halt to bring home hostages but will not stop fighting until hamas is eliminated . hamas says it will not release the hostages without a path to end the war . for ordinary gazans struggling just to survive and israelis desperate to bring home loved ones trapped in captivity , the best hope now could come from a new diplomatic thrust . without it there is the threat of a lingering war which carries a huge cost to humanity and constantly risks sparking further destabilising conflict in an already volatile part of the world .