the us has announced sanctions against three more israeli settlers and - for the first time - two farming outposts , as part of new measures by washington and london to stop the violent displacement of palestinians in the occupied west bank . fares samamreh may not carry a gun , but he has a global superpower defending him . he ' s still losing the fight . a palestinian sheep farmer on the sun - tinged slopes of the south hebron hills in the occupied west bank , his battle with his neighbour , an israeli settler called yinon levy , has drawn both the us and the uk into the dispute . " yinon levy came here three years ago and started bothering me ," fares said , his head wrapped in a piece of white cotton , his eyes narrowed in a permanent squint against the sun . " before the war [ in gaza ] it was the usual thing ; they would come with drones . but a few days after 7 october , it became serious . they all had guns . they started coming to us day and night . i have little kids - some of them are four and five years old ." fares said yinon was one of a group of local israeli settlers who would regularly come to harass his sheep with their dogs and weapons , and even , he says , to assault his family . " they destroyed water tanks , closed down roads , they fire at the sheep ," he said . " he told my wife if we didn ' t leave here , we ' d all be killed ." he said when his wife then swore at him , yinon levy hit her with the butt of his gun . soon afterwards , fares and his family left their village of zanuta . activists say it ' s one of four communities around the settler ' s farm that have been abandoned by their residents . yinon has denied acting violently towards palestinians in the area - and said he didn ' t own a gun until very recently . but he ' s the subject of sanctions from both the us and the uk . the road to yinon ' s farm is straight out of a children ' s picture - book ; a narrow path that winds back and forth up a steep hill , slopes and valleys dropping away to the horizon on either side . at the top , a spacious bungalow stands next to a large shed , full of bleating sheep smothering the strains of pop music from a radio . " we ' re safeguarding these lands to ensure they remain under jewish ownership ," yinon said . " when there is a jewish presence , then there is no arab presence . we keep a watchful eye on the land , ensuring that no unauthorised construction takes place ." most countries deem the settlements , which are built on land captured by israel in 1967 in the middle east war , to be illegal under international law , although israel disagrees . the settler outposts are also illegal under israeli law . the uk said that yinon and another man had " used physical aggression , threatened families at gunpoint , and destroyed property as part of a targeted and calculated effort to displace palestinian communities ". yinon denied the allegations , and said that the israeli government was on his side . " i ' m not worried ," he told the bbc . " this is not against me personally - it ' s against those who obstruct the creation of a palestinian state . there ' s no legal process against me [ in israel ]. here , everything is fine ." both the uk and the us say there is a threshold of evidence that must be met - but neither have made that evidence public and declined to share it with the bbc . we sent yinon a video appearing to show him on palestinian land , approaching activists with a snarling dog . he said it was misleading , and that he was defending his flock . we sent him another video apparently showing him entering another palestinian village with a gun last october . he declined to comment . the sanctions came after a surge in violence in the west bank , following the 7 october hamas attacks and israel ' s war in gaza . the un says violence by israeli settlers included physical attacks and death threats , and that the number of palestinians displaced from their homes last year doubled to 1 , 539 - with more than 80 % of them leaving after 7 october . the uk has said israel is failing to act , and has described " an environment of near total impunity for settler extremists in the west bank ". yinon said that he had received support from israeli politicians . " many called and encouraged us ," he said . " everyone said that when the bad people are against you , you must be doing something right ." one of the politicians who publicly backed yinon in the wake of the sanctions was zvi sukkot of the ultranationalist religious zionism party - a settler himself . he said that settler violence was a " marginal phenomenon " and that those like levy were the victims of conspiracies . " when we have a functioning judicial system in israel , we don ' t want our allies to say , ' we ' ll do the job for you '," he said . " if there was evidence against yinon levy , he would be in israeli prison . who is britain to come and say , ' we are smarter than israeli intelligence '?" the israeli police commander responsible for investigating complaints in the west bank told mr sukkot ' s parliamentary committee this week that half the complaints filed about settler violence there were false , and that they originated from " radical left - wing organisations in tel aviv ". against this backdrop , sanctions on a handful of individual settlers have not shifted israeli policies in the west bank , but they are having a financial impact . yinon ' s israeli bank account was frozen last month . some of those currently under us and uk sanctions have used crowdfunding to finance projects for their area - including one for a synagogue and educational centre at another hilltop outpost called moshe ' s farm . its owner , moshe sharvit , was sanctioned along with yinon levy last month . but on thursday the us expanded sanctions to cover several new targets , including the farm itself - putting this kind of funding at risk . these sanctions may be more symbolic than substantial , but they signal american displeasure - both to israel ' s leaders , and to the parts of president biden ' s democratic base who have been dismayed by images of the war in gaza , in an election year . the chairman of the local yesha ( settlers ) council , shlomo ne ' eman , called it " a disgusting phenomenon " and said the west bank was being used as a scapegoat . " i think more than anything , what drives the response of the uk [ and ] the us is the fear of one settler attack that goes ' out of control '," said yehuda shaul , founder of the ofek centre , a think tank which campaigns to end israel ' s occupation . " the west bank [ then ] erupts like a volcano . and we have another front , as if gaza is not enough , and the road to regional war is almost unstoppable then ." two sheep farmers in the occupied west bank - one backed by a superpower , the other by the israeli state . if the lifestyle here is simple , the politics are complicated . from yinon ' s hilltop farm , you can clearly see the ruins of zanuta perched on the next hill , with the home fares samamreh left months ago . many of the houses are ravaged - roofs and furniture taken by their owners into exile ; walls smashed by settlers to prevent them returning , activists say . the deserted village is slowly being taken over by vast banks of wild mallow . on a post near the entrance , a large star of david has been scrawled in blue paint . settlers here point to attacks by palestinians , and say they are scared . but it ' s palestinians who are leaving .