lebanese soldiers have shot and captured a man who fired at the us embassy in beirut on wednesday , according to lebanon ' s military . local media reported that gunfire was exchanged with the assailant , only identified as a syrian national , for roughly 30 minutes before his arrest . the military and embassy officials said security was mobilised quickly during the attack but that an embassy security guard had been injured . tensions in the region have been simmering , after cross - border attacks between israeli forces and the lebanese group hezbollah - linked to the war in gaza . the months - long violence across the israeli - lebanese border has displaced thousands of people on both sides . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu threatened " very strong action " against hezbollah during a visit to the border area on wednesday . the assailant shot by the lebanese military was wearing a bloodied black vest with the words “ islamic state ” written in arabic and the english initials “ i ” and “ s ", according to local media . the motive for the attack on the heavily guarded building remains unclear . the lebanese military only mentioned one person involved , who was wounded and taken to hospital . however , reports have suggested there were multiple suspects , including a driver and three who opened fire . joe abdo , who works at a gas station near the compound , told the associated press he heard “ around 15 to 20 rounds of gunfire ” while working that morning . lebanese caretaker prime minister najib mikati ' s office said the pm had been informed about the incident , adding that the situation was stable and investigations were under way . the lebanese military said it had deployed troops around the embassy and surrounding areas . a deadly bombing of the us embassy in lebanon in 1983 killed 63 people , prompting officials to move its location from central beirut to aukar , a northern suburb . tension around the diplomatic headquarters has escalated in the wake of the israel - gaza war . in october , hundreds of protesters clashed with lebanese security forces around the embassy to express their anger over gaza ' s mounting death toll .