several countries have joined the un in calling for an investigation into the deaths of more than 100 palestinians during an aid delivery in gaza . at least 112 people were killed and more than 760 injured on thursday as they crowded around aid lorries . hamas accused israel of firing at civilians , but israel said most died in a crush after it fired warning shots . the uk foreign secretary called the situation " horrific " and repeated calls for a sustained pause in fighting . in a statement on friday , david cameron said the tragedy could not be separated from inadequate aid supplies to gaza , which he described as " unacceptable ". " there must be an urgent investigation and accountability ," he said . " this must not happen again ." france , italy and germany have also called for an independent investigation into the aid convoy deaths . french president emmanuel macron said civilians had been " targeted by israeli soldiers ". un secretary general antónio guterres wrote on social media : " i condemn thursday ' s incident in gaza in which more than 100 people were reportedly killed or injured while seeking life - saving aid ." " the desperate civilians in gaza need urgent help , including those in the north where the un has not been able to deliver aid in more than a week ." gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry called the incident a " massacre ". the un security council held a closed - door emergency meeting to discuss the incident , during which algeria - the arab representative of the body - put forward a non - binding statement blaming israeli forces for " opening fire ". the us blocked it , according to ap news agency , citing the palestinian un ambassador riyad mansour who spoke to reporters afterwards . us envoy robert wood said the facts of the incident remained unclear . thursday ' s incident took place shortly after 04 : 45 ( 02 : 45 gmt ) at the nabulsi roundabout , on the south - western edge of gaza city . ramzi mohammed rihan was injured in the stampede and described to bbc arabic what he saw . he said : " we were informed that a shipment of flour would arrive through al - nabulsi street and that there would be no shooting . " we went to get flour to feed our children . we went to nabulsi street and before the trucks arrived there was gunfire . " as the trucks entered , we headed towards them , and as we tried to get the first bag of flour out of the truck , they began to fire at us ." mr rihan said he was carried to the hospital on a cart and that his x - rays have been delayed due to a lack of electricity . khaled al - tarawish was also wounded and said his surgery has also been postponed due to a lack of fuel in al - awada hospital . " i went to nabulsi street to get a bag of flour ," he said . " because of the crowd i ran under the car , i went to the awda hospital where they told me that i needed to have an operation but because there was no diesel fuel , they told me the operation would be carried out three days later . " all i want is to provide the hospital with diesel fuel so that i can undergo the operation and get my treatment ." the convoy of 30 lorries carrying egyptian aid was making its way north along what the israel defense forces ( idf ) described as a " humanitarian corridor " which it said its forces were securing . idf chief spokesman , rear adm daniel hagari , said civilians surrounded the convoy and people began climbing on the lorries . " some began violently pushing and even trampling other gazans to death , looting the humanitarian supplies ," he said . " the unfortunate incident resulted in dozens of gazans killed and injured ." israeli tanks , he said , " cautiously tried to disperse the mob with a few warning shots " but pulled back " when the hundreds became thousands and things got out of hand ". another idf spokesman , lt col peter lerner , said some civilians approached a checkpoint which was about 70 metres ( 230 feet ) away and ignored warning shots fired by the soldiers there . he said the soldiers , fearing that some of the civilians posed a threat , then opened fire on those approaching in what he described as a " limited response ." hamas rejected the idf ' s account , citing " undeniable " evidence of " direct firing at citizens , including headshots aimed at immediate killing ". the incident came hours before gaza ' s health ministry announced that more than 30 , 000 people , including 21 , 000 children and women , had been killed in gaza since the start of the current conflict on 7 october . some 7 , 000 were missing and 70 , 450 were injured , it said . mr gutteres added : " i am appalled by the tragic human toll of the conflict in gaza - more than 30 , 000 people reportedly killed and over 70 , 000 injured . " i reiterate my call for an immediate humanitarian ceasefire and the unconditional release of all hostages ." the executive director of médecins sans frontières ( doctors without borders ) in the uk , natalie roberts , said delivering aid to a starving population without adequate security was risking disaster . speaking to bbc radio 4 ' s today programme she said : " we know that there have been very few aid convoys in the last weeks in the north , people have been unable to get anything to eat . " we know from our own colleagues that they ' re having to eat animal food , that they go without food for days on end sometimes . and so people are just completely desperate , and the minute you start trying to deliver food to the region without any sort of security for the convoy , then this was always going to happen ." the un is warning of a looming famine in the north of the territory , where an estimated 300 , 000 people are living with little food or clean water . israeli military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk and others - after its gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 back to gaza as hostages .