rachel goldberg - polin now lives by a new calendar - not weeks , or months , but days of absence and anguish . every morning when she wakes , she writes a number on a piece of tape and sticks it to her clothing . it ' s the number of days since her son hersh was taken hostage - she says stolen - by hamas . when we meet in jerusalem that number is 155 . on the morning of 7 october , she turned on her phone to find two messages from hersh . the first said : " i love you ." the second sent immediately afterwards read : " i ' m sorry ." she called - no answer . " it rang and rang ," she says . " i wrote ' are you okay ? let me know you are okay .' none of those ( messages ) were ever seen . my throat clenched and my stomach curled up . i just knew something horrible was unfolding , and i knew he knew ." hersh was caught up in the carnage unleashed by hamas at the supernova music festival . he sought refuge in a packed bomb shelter . hamas militants were just outside , throwing in hand grenades . the last image of the 23 - year - old is in a hamas video . he is being loaded on to a pickup truck , surrounded by gunmen . his left arm has been blown off . the hamas attacks killed around 1 , 200 israelis , most of them civilians . since then , israel has bombed gaza relentlessly , killing more than 31 , 000 people according to officials in the hamas - run territory . 70 % of the dead there are women and children . while the war rages in gaza , rachel ' s battle is to bring home her son , and the other hostages . hersh is among 130 hostages from the 7 october attacks remaining in gaza . israel believes at least 30 of them are already dead . " every morning i make a concerted effort and say to myself , ' now , pretend to be human so that i can get up and try to save hersh and the other remaining hostages '," she tells me . " what i want to do is lay in a ball on the floor weeping , but that won ' t help them ." rachel - a mother of three - is small and slight but she is a powerhouse . we meet at her family ' s campaign headquarters - the office of a venture capital company , lent by a friend . campaigning is now her full - time job . she hasn ' t been back to work since the day of the attacks . neither has her husband jon . but five months on , the focus on the hostages is fading - at home and abroad . relatives are having to fight hard to keep them in the public eye . ask about her hersh , and a smile lights up her face . " that ' s my favourite subject - my children ," she says . " hersh is a happy - go - lucky , laid - back soccer fan . he ' s wild about music festivals and he has been obsessed with geography and travel since he ' s been a little boy . " her son , who is an american - israeli dual citizen , was due to leave for a round - the - world trip lasting a year or two . his ticket was already bought . the departure date was 27 december . hopes were raised of a deal to get the hostages back before the muslim holy month of ramadan - in return for a ceasefire of about 40 days and the release of palestinian prisoners . a bleak ramadan has come , without a breakthrough . but talks on a possible agreement are due to resume in doha in the next day or so . rachel says she is always worried , scared , and doubtful - " you know the saying , don ' t count your chickens before they hatch ? i feel like don ' t count your hostage until you ' re hugging them ." but hope , she says , " is mandatory ". " i believe it and i have to believe it , that he will come back to us ." in the midst of her torment , she is quick to acknowledge the pain of families in gaza . she says the agony must end , and not only for israelis . " there are thousands and thousands of innocent civilians in gaza who are suffering ," she says . " there is so much suffering to go around . and i would love for our leaders , all of them , to say , ' we ' re going to do what we have to do so that just the normal people can stop suffering '." experts say it ' s not just the hostage families who are trapped in an anguishing wait . it ' s also the 105 hostages who were freed in november during a week - long truce , leaving others behind . " many of them keep telling us that they can ' t even start grieving or healing until their friends or family members will be back ," says professor ofrit shapira - berman , a veteran psychoanalyst , and specialist in treating complex trauma . " many still have a relative in gaza ," she tells us . " others have friends they made during captivity . everyone is waiting . that ' s one thing they have in common . their trauma is being delayed ." on the morning of 7 october , professor shapira - berman was already mobilising a volunteer network of physicians and mental health experts to provide support for survivors . since november , they have also been treating returned hostages . in her book - filled office in a suburb of tel aviv she gives us a painstaking account of what the hostages endured . all were psychologically abused , she says , but not all were physically abused . " some of them were beaten ," she says , " including the children . they were all given a very little amount of food , almost on the edge of starvation , very little water and sometimes water which was dirty . they were drugged . they were forced to take ketamine ( used for anaesthesia ). they were touched without consent , the whole variety ," she says , her voice trailing away . there is particular concern in israel for the women being held - with reason , she says . " what emerged is very clear evidence and testimony that some of the women are being sexually abused ," she tells us , " not have been but are still being sexually abused ". she is measured about what the future may hold for those who have been freed . at least some of them " will be able to love and to trust someone ", she says , but it may take years . she warns that healing will be more difficult for those who were physically abused or came back to discover loved ones had been slaughtered and their home destroyed . for those who remain in gaza , five months on , she tells us , recovery is far less certain , even if they are ultimately freed . and if they are not released , what does that mean for the hostages who have returned ? " well , apparently your heart can break into endless pieces ," prof shapira - berman replies . " so even though it ' s broken already , it will be broken again . it ' s like beyond my imagination that there will be no ceasefire . even and when the hostages are back , this is our modern holocaust . " family photos of itai svirsky show a dark - haired man with smiling eyes and full cheeks . in one picture , the 38 - year - old is strumming a guitar . in another he sits on a bench with his arm around his grandmother , aviva . in a propaganda video released by hamas in january , there is a very different itai - with sunken cheeks , bleary eyes , and a low voice . he won ' t be coming home . all his family can hope for is to get his body back from gaza for burial . they say itai was killed by his guard - after an idf air strike nearby - based on an investigation by the army . " itai was executed two days after by the terrorist that guarded him ," says his cousin , naama weinberg . " we know he shot him . what would bring that man to shoot him after 99 days ? it ' s devastating . the disappointment is unimaginable . " the army has denied hamas claims that svirsky was killed in the air strike , though it admits another hostage held with him probably was . we first met naama last november when she was campaigning for itai ' s release , and still had hope . despite her loss she ' s still campaigning - for the other hostages - though she is now wrapped in grief . we caught up with her on a recent march by the hostage families from tel aviv to jerusalem . " i ' m angry and i am sad because itai will not come back anymore ," she says . " they ( the government ) did not do whatever they can , and they are still not doing whatever they can . obviously , hamas is not the best partner to negotiate with , but we want them back , and we want them back alive ." naama is pained by what itai went through in his final months - witnessing the killing of his mother , orit - a peace activist - on 7 october , and then languishing in captivity . and she ' s pained by a sense that israel is getting used to the hostage crisis . " i ' m very worried about it ," she tells me . " i am worried about the nature of humankind to accept situations . i am disappointed from israeli society . i am disappointed from the whole world that is sitting quiet and letting this happen ." then she leaves us to rejoin the marchers on the road to jerusalem . days later , relatives gather on the roadway at dusk - forming a tight circle of loss - and bringing traffic to a standstill outside israel ' s defence ministry in tel aviv . most carry posters with photos of sons , or daughters , or parents they have not seen or held since 7 october , when hamas dragged them into gaza . then comes a sombre count ( in hebrew ) " one , two , three " and onwards - a tally of the number of days their loved ones have been gone . that number is now 163 ( as of 17 march ). each word from the loudhailer resounds like an accusation directed at israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu . signs read " deal refusal = hostages ' death sentence ". among the protesters we meet amit shem tov , who wants his brother omer back . he was taken from the music festival like hersh goldberg - polin . " as beautiful as he is from the outside , he is more beautiful from the inside ," amit says , smiling at his brother ' s bearded face in the poster by his side , " such a personality , too many friends , always making jokes , always laughs , always loves to dance , to live life . that ' s him ". then the counting comes to an end , the few dozen protesters clear the road , and the traffic moves on - something the families of the hostages cannot do . " for us , it ' s still 7 october ," says amit . additional reporting by wietske burema