israel ' s military has said it plans to move displaced palestinians in gaza to what it called " humanitarian islands " in the middle of the strip , ahead of any offensive in rafah . some 1 . 4 million people are sheltering in the southern city after fleeing the fighting between israeli troops and hamas in northern and central areas . it is not clear what the " islands " will look like , or how they will operate . but the military suggested that aid and temporary housing would be provided . no timeframe has yet been given about when the operation could happen . the un and us have warned that a full - scale assault in rafah could be disastrous . israel has repeatedly signalled its need for such an operation , insisting hamas cannot be fully removed in gaza without targeting rafah . it is conscious , too , that the group ' s most senior leaders are still at large , almost certainly now in the southernmost part of the strip . the israeli military launched a campaign in gaza after hamas gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 other people hostage . gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry says more than 31 , 300 people have been killed in the territory since then . the chief spokesman of the israel defense forces ( idf ), rear adm daniel hagari , said in a briefing to journalists on wednesday that they needed to make sure that all 1 . 4 million people currently living in rafah , or " at least a significant amount ", would leave ahead of any offensive . he suggested that they could move to " humanitarian islands that we will create with the international community ", where temporary housing , food and water would be provided . but there are still plenty of logistical questions to answer . moving more than half of gaza ' s population from rafah to the centre of the strip would take time , potentially weeks . cars are in short supply now , as is fuel for them , so most people would have to walk once again , carrying their belongings . palestinians are hungrier and weaker than they were five months ago , which would also make large - scale movement slow . the central part of the strip where israel proposes to relocate them has been badly damaged by repeated ground and air attacks . the us secretary of state , antony blinken , said he was yet to receive further details , but " needed to see a plan to get civilians out of harm ' s way " of any ground operation in rafah and ensure they had food , shelter and medicine . benny gantz , a member of israel ' s war cabinet , had suggested a new military operation would begin in rafah by the start of the islamic holy month ramadan if no new hostage release deal was agreed . that did not happen , but prime minister benjamin netanyahu continues to reference it when he addresses the israeli people . " there is international pressure to prevent us from entering rafah and completing the work . as prime minister of israel , i reject this pressure ," mr netanyahu told soldiers at ofer military base on thursday . " we will enter rafah . we will complete the elimination of hamas ' s battalions . we will restore security and we will bring total victory for the people of israel and state of israel ," he added . the idf would also need to bolster its numbers again ahead of any new ground offensive . many of the reservists who were called up in the early days of the war have now been released from duty , and would need to be brought back into operation . rear adm hagari told journalists that the idf was also " trying to flood " gaza with humanitarian aid by opening up multiple routes by land , sea and air . he said us military experts were due to arrive in israel this week to discuss with the idf a us plan to build a floating dock and temporary pier off gaza ' s coast . it would be able to receive containerloads of food , water and medicine . mr blinken emphasised that the floating dock , which will take between one and two months to become fully operational , would be " a complement to - not a substitute for - other ways of getting humanitarian assistance into gaza ". " in particular , overland routes remain the most critical way to get assistance in and then to people who need it ," he said . the un has warned that half a million people are on the brink of famine in gaza . israel , as the occupying power , has the responsibility to see that food and medicine gets to civilians .