tens of thousands of israelis have rallied against israeli pm benjamin netanyahu , demanding a gaza hostage deal . the rallies in tel aviv and other cities came after the israeli defense forces ( idf ) recovered the body of hostage elad katzir . protesters chanted " elections now ", and " elad , we ' re sorry ", local media reported . later , police forcibly dispersed the tel aviv crowd . anti - government protesters were joined by families of hostages held in gaza . demonstrators expressed their frustration with the government ' s inability to free the around 130 hostages who remain in gaza , held by hamas and its allies . earlier on saturday the idf recovered the body of elad katzir , who was seized and taken to gaza during the hamas attacks on southern israel on 7 october . he appeared alive in a hostage video released in january . " elad katzir managed to survive three months in captivity . he should have been with us today . he could have been with us today ," protester noam peri told a bbc reporter . organisers said the protest in tel aviv had drawn 100 , 000 people , while other counts put attendance at around 45 , 000 . the demonstrations were the latest of a series of huge anti - government protests demanding that prime minister netanyahu step down , amid fury that he has failed to free the remaining hostages . a car ploughed into crowds at the protest in tel aviv , injuring five . police said the driver was arrested . some political leaders denounced the apparent ramming attack . war cabinet member benny gantz called it " horrific ". on sunday - exactly six months since the hamas attacks triggered the war in gaza - negotiators plan to meet in cairo to attempt to reach a ceasefire in the brutal war . according to some media reports , cia director bill burns and qatari prime minister mohammed bin abdulrahman al thani will join negotiators from egypt , israel and hamas . mr katzir ' s sister , carmit palty katzir , blamed israeli authorities for her brother ' s death in a post on social media , saying he would have returned alive had they agreed a new truce deal . " our leadership is cowardly and driven by political consideration , which is why this deal has not happened yet ," she wrote on facebook . " prime minister , war cabinet , and coalition members : look at yourself in the mirror and say if your hands didn ' t spill blood ." the 7 october hamas attacks killed about 1 , 200 people , most of them civilians . over 33 , 000 people have been killed during israel ' s offensive in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says - many of them women and children . according to israeli counts , 253 israelis and foreigners were taken during the hamas attacks . about 129 hostages remain unaccounted for after being kidnapped . at least 34 of them are presumed dead . 12 bodies have been recovered by the idf . israel gives a slightly higher official figure because it includes four people taken hostage in 2014 and 2015 . two of these are believed to have died .