the dramatic rescue of four israeli hostages in gaza amid efforts to try to get israel and hamas to agree to a ceasefire has raised questions over the impact it could have on reaching a deal , as mediated talks show no sign of a breakthrough . as images of the freed and smiling three men and one woman dominated tv bulletins and news websites , tens of thousands of people joined protests across israel on saturday , urging the government to strike an agreement with hamas for the release of those who are still being held . “ all of them , now !” the crowd chanted in tel aviv . hamas meanwhile has called the operation , which its health ministry said killed more than 270 palestinians , a “ massacre ”. being discussed is a three - stage plan announced by us president joe biden earlier this month , which he described as an israeli proposal . it would secure the release of the hostages and , crucially , pave the way for a permanent ceasefire in gaza . notably , the israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has not openly endorsed the plan . it is not surprising , as he is facing pressure from multiple fronts and seems to be caught between two options : ceasefire or coalition . the families of the hostages , whose ordeal has gripped the nation , and israel ’ s international allies are calling for a deal . from the people captured in october , 116 remain in captivity ; more than a third of them have already been officially declared dead , a number that is probably higher . among those against the proposal , full details of which have not been made public , are two of mr netanyahu ’ s far - right ministers , itamar ben - gvir and bezalel smotrich . they have threatened to quit the government if the deal goes ahead , which could lead to the collapse of the netanyahu coalition .“ temporarily in israel there will be more pressure from certain quarters on netanyahu to not do any deal , that we should continue to do rescue operations ,” gershon baskin , who helped negotiated a deal with hamas for the release of captured israeli soldier gilad shalit in 2011 , said . “ anyone who thinks logically and rationally knows that the only way to get [ the ] hostages home is through a negotiated deal .” the resignation of benny gantz from the emergency government on sunday is likely to result in more power to both mr ben - gvir and mr smotrich – and , possibly , in more pressure from them on mr netanyahu . described as a moderate , mr gantz is considered a possible candidate to be the next prime minister . in israel , much of the dispute over the current proposal is around the commitment to a permanent cessation of hostilities – in other words , the end of the war . mr netanyahu has insisted israel will not accept any plan before the destruction of hamas ’ s military and governing capabilities , a choice of words that is vague enough to leave his options open .“ i believe that netanyahu prefers his coalition over bringing our boys and girls home ,” said michael hauser tov , chief political correspondent at the haaretz newspaper , which is critical of the prime minister . this is a common suspicion in israel and elsewhere : that mr netanyahu is interested in prolonging the war for his own political survival . “ i think netanyahu will try to continue with the negotiations only for his international needs and the relationship with president biden . and , on the other hand , he ’ ll try to sabotage the negotiations because he wants to keep his coalition stable .” hamas has not yet given a formal response to the plan outlined by president biden . one of its key demands is a guarantee that the israeli military will not resume its offensive against the group once the hostages are released .“ hamas , from my experience with them , puts up a position and they stay firm to it . how long can they last ? i don ’ t know ,” mr baskin said . “ my perception is that the longer israel continues this war , the easier for [ hamas ] to recruit new recruits from bereaved families and people who ’ ve lost their homes , and an armed insurgency against the israelis will continue as long as israel is in gaza .” the israeli rescue in gaza , which resulted in the death of one israeli special forces officer , was considered a successful operation by israel ’ s top authorities , despite the carnage in nuseirat that has been largely ignored in israel .“ if anyone believes that [ saturday ’ s ] operation absolves the government to strike a deal , they are living a fantasy ,” nahum barnea , an israeli political commentator , wrote in the yedioth ahronoth newspaper . “ the opposite is true . the joy over the successful rescue of the four only evinced the need for a deal .” hours after the four freed hostages arrived in a hospital near tel aviv , mr netanyahu visited them and their families . it did not go unnoticed that this happened before the end of the jewish sabbath , when official activities are often muted , and was accompanied by a torrent of videos and photos released by his team .“ when the ending is bad , the prime minister doesn ’ t show up . he doesn ’ t call , either ,” avi marciano , whose daughter noa was killed in captivity , wrote on facebook . us secretary of state antony blinken is back in the middle east , his eighth trip to the region since the hamas attacks , in another effort to push for a deal . there are also growing concerns that , without a ceasefire in gaza , violence might escalate along israel ’ s border with lebanon , where the iranian - backed hezbollah movement has carried out near - daily attacks . with a wide gap remaining between israel and hamas , us pressure is not a guarantee of progress . “ there ’ s no quick end to this war … this could theoretically go on for years ,” mr baskin said . “ i really want to be optimistic , but it ’ s very difficult to be .”