the un ' s human rights chief has said he is " horrified " by the destruction of gaza ' s nasser and al - shifa hospitals and the reports of " mass graves " being found at the sites after israeli raids . volker tã¼rk called for independent investigations into the deaths . palestinian officials said they had exhumed 283 bodies at nasser , some with their hands tied . it is not clear how they died or when they were buried . israel ' s military said claims that it buried bodies there were " baseless ". but it did say that during a two - week operation at the hospital in the city of khan younis in february , troops " examined " bodies buried by palestinians " in places where intelligence indicated the possible presence of hostages ". testimony from a number of released hostages who were held at nasser hospital places 10 hostages in total there , one of whom remains in captivity . the head of the un human rights office for the palestinian territories also said he did not have " solid evidence " that bodies were found in the graves with their hands tied . ajith sunghay told the bbc that while he had seen some photographs of bodies with hands tied , the evidence did not meet the standard of proof required by the un and so could not be stated as a fact . prior to the israeli operation at nasser , staff there had said they had been forced to bury bodies in the hospital ' s courtyard because nearby fighting prevented access to cemeteries , and videos were posted on social media showing burials taking place there . there were similar reports from al - shifa before the first israeli raid on the hospital took place in november . the israeli military has said it has raided a number of hospitals in gaza during the war because hamas fighters have been operating inside them - a claim hamas and medical officials have denied . the war began when hamas gunmen carried out an unprecedented cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people - mostly civilians - and taking 253 others back to gaza as hostages . more than 34 , 180 people - most of them children and women - have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . a spokeswoman for the un human rights office said on tuesday that it was working on corroborating reports from palestinian officials that 283 bodies had been found in nasser hospital ' s grounds , including 42 which had been identified . " victims had reportedly been buried deep in the ground and covered with waste ," ravina shamdasani told reporters in geneva . " among the deceased were allegedly older people , women and wounded , while others ... were found with their hands tied and stripped of their clothes ." mr tã¼rk called for independent , effective and transparent investigations into the deaths , adding : " given the prevailing climate of impunity , this should include international investigators ." " hospitals are entitled to very special protection under international humanitarian law . and the intentional killing of civilians , detainees , and others who are hors de combat [ not participating in hostilities ] is a war crime ." the us state department also said the reports were " incredibly troubling ". on monday , a spokesman for the hamas - run civil defense force told bbc arabic ' s gaza today programme that it had received reports from local palestinians that the bodies of a " large number " of people who had been killed during the war and buried in a makeshift cemetery in the hospital ' s courtyard were moved to another location during the israeli raid . " after research and investigation , we learned that the occupation [ israeli ] army had established a mass grave , pulled out the bodies that were in nasser hospital , and buried them in this mass grave ," mahmoud basal said . gaza today also spoke to a man who said he was searching there for the bodies of two male relatives which he alleged had been taken by israeli troops during israel ' s recently concluded offensive in khan younis . " after i had buried them in an apartment , the [ israelis ] came and moved their bodies ," he said . " every day we search for their bodies , but we fail to find them ." hamas has alleged that the bodies include people " executed in cold blood " by israeli forces , without providing evidence . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said in a statement on tuesday : " the claim that the idf buried palestinian bodies is baseless and unfounded ." " during the idf ' s operation in the area of nasser hospital , in accordance to the effort to locate hostages and missing persons , corpses buried by palestinians in the area of nasser hospital were examined . " the examination was conducted in a careful manner and exclusively in places where intelligence indicated the possible presence of hostages . the examination was carried out respectfully while maintaining the dignity of the deceased . bodies examined , which did not belong to israeli hostages , were returned to their place ." the idf said that its forces had detained " about 200 terrorists who were in the hospital " during the raid , and that they found ammunition as well as unused medicines intended for israeli hostages . it also insisted that the raid was carried out " in a targeted manner and without harming the hospital , the patients and the medical staff ". however , three medical staff told the bbc last month that they were humiliated , beaten , doused with cold water , and forced to kneel for hours after being detained during the raid . medics who remained at nasser after the israeli takeover said they were unable to care for patients and that 13 died because of conditions there , including a lack of water , electricity and other supplies . on 1 april , israeli troops withdrew from al - shifa hospital , which is in gaza city , following what the idf said was another " precise " operation carried out in response to intelligence that hamas had regrouped there . the idf said at the time that 200 " terrorists " were killed in and around the hospital during the two - week raid . more than 500 others were detained , and weapons and intelligence were found " throughout the hospital ", it added . after a mission gained access to the facility five days later , the world health organization ( who ) said al - shifa was " now an empty shell ", with most of the buildings extensively damaged or destroyed , and the majority of equipment unusable or reduced to ashes . it also said that " numerous shallow graves " had been dug just outside the emergency department , and the administrative and surgical buildings , and that " many dead bodies were partially buried with their limbs visible ". the idf also said it had avoided harm to patients at al - shifa . but the who cited the acting hospital director as saying patients were held in abysmal conditions during the siege , and that at least 20 patients reportedly died due to a lack of access to care and limited movement authorised for medics . spokeswoman ms shamdasani said reports seen by the un human rights office suggested that a total of 30 bodies were buried in the two graves and that 12 of them had been identified so far . " there are reports that the hands of some of these bodies were also tied ," she said , adding that " many more " people could have been killed than the 200 reported by the idf . gaza ' s civil defence spokesman told cnn on 9 april that 381 bodies had been recovered from the vicinity of al - shifa , but that the figure did not include people buried in the hospital ' s grounds . the un human rights chief also deplored as " beyond warfare " a series of israeli strikes on the southern city of rafah in the past few days , which he said had killed mostly women and children . the strikes included one on saturday night , after which a premature baby was delivered from the womb of her pregnant mother , who was killed along with her husband and other daughter . mr tã¼rk also again warned against a full - scale israeli ground assault on rafah , where 1 . 5 million displaced civilians are sheltering , saying it would lead to further breaches of international humanitarian law and human rights law . in response , the idf said it was " operating to dismantle hamas military and administrative capabilities ". " in stark contrast to hamas ' intentional attacks on israeli men , women and children , the idf follows international law and takes feasible precautions to mitigate civilian harm ," it added .