women from different religions have said that singing together in a choir has helped them gain new perspectives and “ create bonds ”. trubys abrahamic women ' s choir has 30 members and performs songs from judaism , islam and christianity . the group will appear at an interfaith ramadan event , the great get together iftar , on sunday in milton keynes . the choir ' s founder , kurshida mizra , said the group had also helped members to work through “ the terrible , emotional " period surrounding the israel - gaza conflict . " we ’ ve sat in a room together and managed to find words to talk about it , without ever feeling that we ’ re not loved by each other .“ it ’ s been much easier than you think because we came together accepting there is so much that unites us ." we ’ re going through a terrible emotional time ... but our group brings together women from these three different faiths ," ms mirza said . ms mirza , who also set up the interfaith café trubys garden tearoom in milton keynes , said she was inspired by early memories of attending islamic mawlid gatherings .“ i remember enjoying them very much and i learned a lot from the act of singing .“ in all of our religions there is a rich tradition of recitation and singing . if you recite the quran , it ’ s very melodic ,” she said . the choir was initially funded to create a sound piece exploring women ' s spiritual experiences ." our voices are not heard in the faith setting , it ’ s a very male - dominated perspective ," said ms mirza . after the funding ended , the members wanted to continue the choir . “ they found it made them happy , they bonded , learned from each other ’ s perspectives . it created a lot of friendships .” gill barstow , 65 , said she “ absolutely loves singing ”. she attends the church of jesus christ of latter - day saints and was “ always very keen to find out about other religions and create unity ”. ms barstow said that at first , “ it may seem the person is quite different – they have different practices or ways of worshipping ”.“ but when you get under the surface , there is so much more that connects people of faith than difference . it ' s uplifting to meet another person who worships the same god i do , but in a different way ,” she added . ms barstow said she was “ quite proud ” of herself for managing to sing in hebrew and arabic . she described “ a sort of energy and cooperation ” in the choir , as well as a spiritual connection .“ i often feel the spirit very strongly when i sing – sometimes i ' m half way through a song and i feel like crying . a lot of songs are like poems and prayers really ,” she said . asma moustaoui , 33 , said belonging to the choir was “ mentally , physically and spiritually beneficial ”.“ it ’ s a breather to sit with women who share the same values and purpose ,” she said . growing up as a muslim in morocco , singing was the norm .“ i grew up singing burda and in women ’ s groups . i was a professional quran reciter . it was a form of spiritual connectivity – with family , faith and women .” but after moving to the uk , ms moustaoui said she felt “ isolated ” from that heritage , and started to " lose connection ” with her faith . so the women ’ s choir was “ ideal ”, and with her degree in linguistics , she has been able to translate and teach members how to sing in other languages .“ it ' s beautiful to see how many words are similar in the different languages . i ' ve never sung in english before this .“ you learn from the others , you learn new ways to sing a song that you ’ ve done your whole life . people bring a different spirit to it ,” she said . lynda gilbert , 68 , said the choir had helped her to “ hang onto hope ” in the face of the conflict in the middle east . ms gilbert , who is a member of the milton keynes and district reform synagogue , said it was “ really important for jewish women to stand alongside christian and muslim women and sing together for peace ”.“ if we can come together and sing together , then it ’ s possible in the middle east too . we can keep hold of that dream and it keeps us from feeling despair .” she said that while some “ divisiveness ” had spilled over into british society , “ in groups like ours we ’ re pushing back against that ". " we are forging bonds between women , but also between these three faiths that have so much in common with each other . " we ' re not opposites , we ’ re all one , united .” follow east of england news on facebook , instagram and x . got a story ? email eastofenglandnews @ bbc . co . uk or whatsapp us on 0800 169 1830