the us house of representatives has voted to pass legislation that would sanction the international criminal court ( icc ) after its prosecutor applied for arrest warrants against israeli officials . the move comes after the hague - based court ' s prosecutor said israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and israeli defence minister yoav gallant should be arrested on charges relating to the war in gaza . the prosecutor is also seeking warrants for three leaders of hamas . the bill , proposed by pro - israel republicans , targets icc officials involved in the case by blocking their entry to the us . on tuesday , it passed with a majority of republican support by a vote of 247 - 155 . two republicans voted " present " and 42 pro - israel democrats crossed the aisle to back the legislation . though the bill passed in the house , it is not expected to become law . the legislation will likely be ignored by democrats who control the us senate , where it would have to pass before it could be signed into law by the president . but president joe biden has also indicated that he " strongly opposes " the bill and the administration has said it does not support the sanctions . if it did become law , however , the legislation would also revoke any us visas held by icc officials and restrict them from making property transactions in the us . some senate democrats , like john fetterman of pennsylvania , an outspoken supporter of israel , have indicated they would support legislation sanctioning the court .“ i really would like to sanction the icc for that . that was trash ,” fetterman said of the arrest warrants . congressman chip roy , a texas republican who introduced the legislation in the house , titled the illegitimate court counteraction act , has called the icc “ a massive threat to us sovereignty ”. the democrats who opposed the measure largely support israel , but have criticised mr netanyahu ' s conservative government . some democratic opponents said it risked forcing the us to sanction ally nations that support the icc . when the measure cleared the house rules committee on monday , jim mcgovern , a massachusetts democrat , said : “ this bill makes a mockery of the rules - based international order that america helped build .” the bill ' s passage comes shortly after mr netanyahu was invited by us lawmakers to deliver a speech to congress this summer , although the date of his speech has not been finalised . last month , icc chief prosecutor karim khan said he had " reasonable grounds " to believe that mr netanyahu and mr gallant , as well as hamas ’ s gaza leader yahya sinwar , military chief mohammed deif and political leader ismail haniyeh , bore " criminal responsibility " for alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity during the war in gaza . it marked the first time the icc has targeted the top leader of a close us ally ." the icc has to be punished for this action ," republican speaker of the house mike johnson said on tuesday . " we cannot allow this to stand ."" if the icc was allowed to do this and go after the leaders of countries whose actions they disagree with , why would they not come after america ?" israel ’ s government and hamas reacted with outrage to mr khan ' s announcement last month . mr netanyahu denounced the warrant applications against him and mr gallant as a “ moral outrage of historic proportions ”. mr gallant accused the prosecutor of drawing a “ despicable ” parallel between israel and hamas and attempting to deny his country ’ s right to self - defence . hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the us and other countries - demanded the cancellation of the warrant applications for its leaders and denounced what it called mr khan ' s attempts “ to equate the victim with the executioner ". if the icc ’ s judges decide to issue the arrest warrants , it will be up to its 124 member states - including the uk and many other us allies - to decide whether or not to enforce them . the white house said in a statement on monday that while the icc prosecutor ’ s warrant applications for israeli leaders were " outrageous ", it did not support sanctioning the icc ." there are more effective ways to defend israel , preserve us positions on the icc , and promote international justice and accountability , and the administration stands ready to work with the congress on those options ,” it said . created by a un treaty in 2002 , the icc investigates and brings to justice those responsible for genocide , crimes against humanity and war crimes , intervening when national authorities cannot or will not prosecute . the us - like israel - is not a member of the icc and does not recognise its jurisdiction , but has backed its previous prosecutions and arrest warrants not related to israel and the palestinians . in 2020 under the trump administration , the us imposed sanctions on top icc officials , including mr khan ’ s predecessor , after the court began investigating alleged war crimes committed by the us and others in the afghan conflict . the ongoing conflict in gaza began when hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 251 others hostage , according to israeli authorities . at least 36 , 470 people have since been killed in gaza during israel ’ s military campaign to destroy hamas , according to the hamas - run health ministry .