a crude oil tanker has been damaged in a missile attack off the coast of yemen - the latest strike to be carried out by the houthis . the incident happened roughly 15 nautical miles south - west of the yemeni city of mocha . british maritime security agency ukmto reported that the panama - flagged ship was struck twice and suffered damage . no injuries or deaths have been reported and the incident is being investigated . according to the ukmto , the first missile attack caused an explosion near to the ship and was felt by those aboard . the second - thought to involve two missiles - made contact . global risk management firm ambrey said that three missiles had been sighted . it added that ballistic missiles had reportedly been fired from yemen ' s south - western taiz governate . the houthis have claimed responsibility for the attack . the group ' s military spokesman , yahya sarea , said in a televised speech on saturday that a " british " ship called the andromeda star had been targeted , resulting in a " direct hit ". us central command confirmed that andromeda star was the ship in question , that it had suffered minor damage and was continuing its voyage . ambrey reported that the tanker in question was owned by the uk until november 2023 . its current owner is seychelles - registered and was engaged in russia - linked trade - travelling from the russia town of primorsk to vadinar , in the indian state of gujarat , when the attack happened . ambrey advised ship owners and operators to carry out a " thorough affiliation check " before transiting the area " as the houthis may associate vessels with out - of - date affiliations ". since november , the rebel group has been carrying out attacks on ships they say are linked to israel in the red sea and the gulf of aden , saying their actions are in support of the palestinians in gaza . the us and the uk have carried out a series of attacks on houthi targets inside yemen in response , leading the houthis to retaliate against ships it believes are linked to those countries . the rebels ' attacks on merchant vessels in the red sea have prompted many shipping companies to stop using the waterway , through which about 12 % of global seaborne trade passes .