the first uk - funded field hospital in gaza aims to be fully functioning in days , with treatment for everything from minor illnesses to bullet wounds . it has been set up by the aid organisation uk - med , which deploys many nhs staff to international emergencies . the facility is based near rafah , where 1 . 5 million palestinians are crammed in , having fled other parts of gaza . " the scale of the need is simply staggering ," uk - med ' s chief executive david wightwick told the bbc he was speaking over the noise of hammering and banging as construction continued in the desert sands of al mawasi . " there are very few services of any kind and the health services have been eroded to the extent that if you are sick , if you are ill , if you are wounded , you are in a very difficult situation ." the field hospital - which was despatched from manchester - will eventually cover the size of two football fields , but getting started hasn ' t been easy . when the uk - med trucks were held up at the border , david and his team began building with local timber from destroyed buildings . " it took a lot of negotiation to get land , and it took a lot of negotiation to get things across the border ," he said . " it ' s been a challenge to find staff . it has been a challenge to communicate , none of the phones work , none of the internet works , and everything somehow has to be made to work in order to bring essential urgent life - saving services to people ." the team are already seeing about 100 outpatients a day at the field hospital and expect to double that soon . uk - med is already running mobile clinics that go out into the community in gaza . " they have definitely seen cases of acute malnutrition in very young children ," david said . a surgical team from the aid group has been working in the chaos of the al aqsa hospital - the only hospital functioning in the centre of the gaza strip . the wards and corridors are teeming with patients , and with families seeking shelter , who have bedded down on the floor . it ' s hard to get a trolley through , but when we visited , a 12 - year - old boy called anas was on his way to surgery with a broken leg and wounds to his face . anas said that he was playing when his neighbourhood was bombed . he was injured , and his mother and six - month - old baby brother were killed . " may god have mercy on their souls ," he said . uk - med orthopaedic trauma surgeon saba papuashvili was waiting for anas in the operating room . " he ' s a brave boy ," he said . the surgery went well . anas will recover but the team have seen some of the worst that war can do , according to anaesthetist judith kendall . " i have worked in many warzones over the past nine years ," she told the bbc . " i think what shocked me about this particular context is the number of children injured that we are seeing , and the extent of those injuries . they are life - changing injuries that a child will have to live with ." gaza ' s hospitals aren ' t just overwhelmed . they are often under attack from israeli forces . israel claims that hamas used hospitals as cover - a claim denied by health officials and medical staff . the uk - med team understand the danger , said mark shaw , from west yorkshire , who has previously worked in ukraine . " we recognise the risks , and we accept the risk which is why we are here in a humanitarian sense ," he said . " the worst injuries we are seeing are the amputations , and blast injures , especially in young children ." back in al mawasi , more trucks have arrived , and another hangar has been erected . if there is ground invasion in rafah - as israel is threatening - the british field hospital could be crucial .