tehran is tense , two days after iran ' s unprecedented direct attack on israel . worried about war and its impact on iran ' s already flailing economy , a significant proportion of iranians oppose what they see as the reckless adventurism of the country ' s elite islamic revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ), which fired more than 300 drones and missiles on saturday night . in a letter sent to bbc persian , a long list of iranian activists both inside the country and abroad criticised iran ' s and israel ' s actions and saying " no to warmongering !" many iranians also see the iran - israel confrontation now emerging from the shadows as being orchestrated by the iranian government rather than reflective of the will of the iranian people . this perception is underscored by a heavy police presence on the streets of tehran - ostensibly about enforcing strict islamic dress codes requiring women to cover their hair but which many suspect is mainly about crushing any possible protests . some decision - makers fear that if iranian security forces and the irgc ' s command centres are hit in a war with israel and the us , this could reignite nationwide protests that erupted in 2022 after the death of a young woman in police custody . some graffiti has appeared on walls in iranian cities - " israel , strike the supreme leader ' s [ ayatollah ali khamenei ' s ] house ," reads one . " israel hit them , they lack the courage to retaliate ," read another . the government has its own billboards - " tel aviv is our battleground , not tehran ," reads one . immediately after the irgc attack , supporters of the islamic republic celebrated and a banner warning israelis that " the next slap will be fiercer " was hung from a building in tehran . " i believe it was the right decision to attack israel to prevent further killings of iranian commanders in syria and elsewhere ," one woman said in a voice message sent to bbc persian . but another said : " iranians themselves are in a state of war with the current regime . we harbour no animosity towards any nation , including israel ." meanwhile a woman said she was concerned about a wider war . such fears appeared to prompt people to scramble to stock up on essentials like food and fuel , with pictures showing queues forming outside petrol stations in tehran and supermarkets inundated with shoppers . with the official inflation rate standing at just over 40 % and tens of millions of people struggling with the cost of living , a military confrontation with israel was the last thing most iranians wanted . the value of the iranian rial , already at a historic low , declined further against the us dollar following israel ' s attack on the iranian consulate in syria . many worry that , sooner or later , the military escalations will hike the prices of many goods , from mobile phones to home appliances and many foodstuffs . the iranian government sets the price of some essential items such as bread and fuel , and lets many items be imported on a preferential exchange rate ( in other words cheap foreign currency ). but still the price of many goods follow the open market exchange rate . iran ' s economy has been struggling since the us left an international deal to limit iran ' s nuclear activities in 2018 and re - imposed crippling sanctions , particularly curbing iran ' s ability to export crude oil . on tuesday , iranian newspapers were focusing on international pressure on israel to show restraint but also attempting to allay any economic concerns . iran ' s press - which reflects a range of political viewpoints , albeit within unwritten rules - has been largely supportive of the irgc action . keyhan insisted that there was " economic calm by showing iran ' s power ". hardline vatan - e emrouz said sunday night ' s emergency un security council meeting called by israel was a " night of isolation " for israel , while reformist newspaper arman - e emrouz noted a " global wave to end tensions in the middle east ". online , the islamic republic ' s supporters have been posting under the persian - language hashtags # punishing_the_aggressor and # we_made_them_regretful . however critical posts under the english hashtag # irgcterrorists have swept persian - language x , urging western countries to designate the irgc a terrorist organisation and paying tribute to protesters that they say the irgc and other security forces killed during the 2022 nationwide protests . popular former footballer ali karimi , based outside iran , meanwhile posted a photo of intertwined hands overlaid with the israeli flag and a previous version of the iranian flag that was in use before the 1979 islamic revolution . " we are iran , not the islamic republic ," he said .