thousands of pro - palestinian protesters marched through central london on saturday , reiterating calls for a ceasefire in gaza . the protest marked the 76th anniversary of what palestinians refer to as the nakba - the mass displacement of people after the creation of israel in 1948 . the metropolitan police said it had held " regular discussions " with organisers the palestinian solidarity campaign ( psc ) to minimise disruption . a counter - demonstration by pro - israel group enough is enough took place at piccadilly circus at the same time . the met said seven arrests were made during the psc event , with officers intervening in incidents involving " offensive placards and chants , violence and sexual assault ". one man was arrested for " carrying a coffin with offensive language on it ", the force added . another man , 22 , was arrested on suspicion of assaulting an officer . at the counter - demonstration , police said a 74 - year - old man was arrested on " suspicion of a provocation of violence ". ch supt colin wingrove , leading this weekend ’ s policing operation , said police " made swift interventions to make arrests where criminal offences were suspected ". the pro - palestinian march was the 14th such event held in london since the hamas attack on israel on 7 october , in which 1 , 200 people were killed and more than 240 kidnapped . after the 7 october attack , israel launched an offensive in gaza that has killed more than 35 , 000 people , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . demonstrators , some carrying " ceasefire now " placards , were heard singing and chanting as they made their way from regent street to whitehall , where they gathered for speeches . one protester , sandi , a palestinian who has family in gaza , said that she had not heard from her relatives there for the last 10 days ." the internet connection is down , so sometimes it ' s longer - weeks - that i don ' t hear from them ," she told the bbc ." like everyone else in gaza , they ' re suffering from a lack of safety , access to food , internet , medical aid and freedom of movement ." the psc said demonstrators were calling " again for action to end the genocide in gaza ". the un ' s top court , the international court of justice ( icj ), is considering a case brought by south africa in january accusing israel of committing genocide against the palestinians in gaza . israel has rejected the claim as false and " grossly distorted ". the icj is not expected to deliver a ruling on the genocide case for several years .