president joe biden has promised israel " ironclad " us support amid fears that tehran could launch reprisals for an attack that killed senior iranians . he warned that iran is threatening to launch a " significant attack " after it blamed israel for a strike on its consulate in syria 10 days ago . " we ' re going to do all we can to protect israel ' s security ," he added . earlier on wednesday , iran ' s leader said the attack in damascus was equivalent to an attack on iran itself . " when they attacked our consulate area , it was like they attacked our territory ," ayatollah ali khamenei said in a televised speech . " the evil regime must be punished , and it will be punished ." it is unclear what form any reprisal attack would take . for iran to strike israel directly would risk an even greater escalation in the conflict , and analysts have said iran does not have the military capability for a significant confrontation . a possible alternative is an attack via an iranian proxy like hezbollah , which has traded fire with israel across the border from lebanon almost daily since 8 october . those exchanges have intensified in recent weeks . " hezbollah is very capable , hundreds of thousands of rockets and missiles there , on the border that can reach all the way into southern israel ," joe buccino , former communications director at the us military ' s central command , told the bbc . " hezbollah is much more capable than hamas . so they ' d have the capability to do significant damage into israel ." on sunday an iranian official warned israel ' s embassies were " no longer safe ", suggesting a consulate building could be a possible target . experts have also suggested iran could target israel with a cyber - attack . thirteen people were killed in the 1 april attack on the iranian consulate building , including senior iranian military leaders . among them was brig - gen mohammad reza zahedi , a senior commander of iran ' s elite quds force in syria and lebanon . israel has not claimed responsibility for the attack , but is widely considered to have been behind it . us and israeli forces in the region have been put on high alert in the days since . last week the israel defense forces ( idf ) cancelled leave for soldiers serving with combat units and called up reservists to bolster air defence units . israeli minister of foreign affairs israel katz responded on social media to ayatollah khamenei ' s comments by saying if tehran attacked from its territory , israel would react and " attack in iran ". meanwhile the head of us forces in the region , gen michael kurilla , is to discuss the threat of a possible iranian attack in talks with israeli defence minister yoav gallant and army chief of staff lt gen herzi halevi in israel on thursday , according to israeli media reports . mr biden ' s remarks came as he was speaking to journalists at the white house on wednesday alongside japanese prime minister fumio kishida . " as i told prime minister [ benjamin ] netanyahu , our commitment to israel ' s security against these threats from iran and its proxies is ironclad - let me say it again , ironclad ," mr biden said . his comments come one day after an interview , recorded a week ago , was aired in which mr biden urged mr netanyahu to " just call for a ceasefire " in gaza and in which he said he disagreed with the prime minister ' s war strategy . " i think what he ' s doing is a mistake . i don ' t agree with his approach ," he said in the interview with us network univision . it also comes days after a tense phone call between mr biden and mr netanyahu in the wake of the israeli killing of seven humanitarian aid workers in gaza . mr biden has sharpened his rhetoric over israel ' s conduct in the nearly six - month - old war sparked by hamas ' s 7 october attack , and voiced his growing frustration with mr netanyahu . iran backs hamas and iranian officials have praised the attack in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 taken to gaza as hostages . us officials have been attempting to send a message to the iranians that , despite differences of opinion between mr biden and mr netanyahu , any attack on israel will be met with an aggressive us response . in an effort to ease tensions , the foreign ministers of saudi arabia , the uae , qatar and iraq spoke to their iranian counterpart this week , according to axios . the ministers were asked to convey a message from mr biden ' s senior middle east advisor , brett mcgurk , about the need to de - escalate . according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry , more than 33 , 000 people - mostly women and children - have been killed in the israeli offensive , which was triggered by hamas ' s attack . additional reporting by raffi berg