israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu says he has set a date for a military offensive into rafah , despite growing warnings that it could lead to high civilian casualties . more than a million palestinians are sheltering in the southern city after being forced to flee their homes . mr netanyahu ' s comment followed calls by far - right government allies to step up military actions against hamas . the prime minister ' s popularity has plummeted after six months of war . with negotiations with hamas still under way in egypt , mr netanyahu is being pushed to agree a hostage - prisoner swap and ceasefire deal by many israelis - as well as key international allies , including the us . but as discontent grows at home and abroad over how his government has conducted the war , he is also facing calls to ramp up operations against hamas by far - right leaders he has relied on for political support . mr netanyahu ' s rule is backed by a coalition that includes far - right , ultranationalist parties , some of whom are against the idea of making concessions to hamas . they say the war must continue and believe the israeli military should go ahead with plans to launch an incursion into the southern city of rafah , where about 1 . 5 million palestinians are sheltering in tents and overcrowded camps . those calls intensified after the israel defense forces ( idf ) announced it was pulling its troops out of khan younis , the largest city in southern gaza , effectively ending major ground operations in the area . itamar ben gvir , the far - right national security minister , warned mr netanyahu that if he " decides to end the war without a broad attack on rafah to defeat hamas , he won ' t have a mandate to continue serving as prime minister ". far - right finance minister bezalel smotrich told the prime minister " we have to increase the pressure on hamas in gaza , which is the only way to bring back the [ israeli ] hostages and destroy hamas ". speaking on monday after those interventions , mr netanyahu said : " today i received a detailed report on the talks in cairo - we are constantly working to achieve our goals , first and foremost the release of all our hostages and achieving a complete victory over hamas . " this victory requires entry into rafah and the elimination of the terrorist battalions there . it will happen - there is a date ." the remarks may be seen as an attempt to appeal to allies that sustain his coalition , as any offensive is unlikely to be imminent . mr netanyahu did not indicate which date he had decided on . the us is opposed to an assault on rafah , and the israeli government has also been urged to halt the planned offensive in a joint statement signed by egyptian president abdul fattah al - sisi , french president emmanuel macron and jordan ' s king abdullah ii . writing in france ' s le monde newspaper , they warned the plan would have " dangerous consequences " and " threaten regional escalation ", adding : " the war in gaza and the catastrophic humanitarian suffering it is causing must end now . they also said a recent un security council resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire and the release of all hamas - held hostages must be " fully implemented without further delay ". domestically , there have been large protests demanding an agreement to guarantee the release of the hostages . families say mr netanyahu has not made their release a priority , and that the government ' s strategy of putting military pressure on hamas to negotiate has failed . the relatives say time is running out to save the captives who remain alive . with talks involving intermediaries in cairo ongoing , israeli defence minister yoav gallant suggested earlier this week that now was the right time for a deal over hostages . on monday , a senior hamas official told the reuters news agency that israeli proposals had not met its demands , but the group said they would nevertheless be examined . " there is no change in the position of the occupation [ israel ] and therefore , there is nothing new in the cairo talks ," the hamas official , who asked not to be identified , said . " there is no progress yet ." william burns , the director of the cia , is attending the cairo talks . his presence underlines the growing pressure from the us - israel ' s main ally - for an agreement . in a separate development , israel reported that 419 aid trucks had entered gaza on monday , including 330 trucks carrying food - more than double the average 140 food trucks a day in march . it follows us pressure on israel to alleviate humanitarian suffering in gaza . on tuesday , us defense secretary lloyd austin told a senate hearing that widespread famine in gaza would " accelerate violence , and it will have the effect of ensuring that there ' s a long - term conflict ". " it doesn ' t have to happen ," he said , adding : " we should continue to do everything we can , and we are doing this , to encourage the israelis to provide humanitarian assistance ." however , an israeli promise to open the erez crossing to northern gaza , where hunger is most acute , has not yet been carried out and officials have not indicated when that could happen . the head of the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa , again warned of possible famine , saying far too little aid was reaching gaza . philippe lazzarini also warned palestinians returning to the devastated city of khan younis about the threat of unexploded munitions there following the israeli pullout . he told the bbc there might be thousands of such devices in the rubble . some residents who have already gone back said they were unable to locate their homes in the ruins . hamas attacked southern israeli border communities on 7 october , killing 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostage . israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 000 gazans , the majority of them civilians , have been killed during israel ' s offensive in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says . gaza is said to be on the brink of famine , with oxfam reporting that 300 , 000 people trapped in the north have lived since january on an average of 245 calories a day . israel has denied impeding the entry of aid or its distribution inside gaza , and has accused un agencies on the ground of failing to get the aid that is allowed in to the people who need it .