israel ' s military says it has begun ordering palestinians to leave parts of eastern rafah ahead of a " limited " operation in the southern gaza city . about 100 , 000 people are being directed to head for an " expanded humanitarian area " in khan younis and al - mawasi . after seven months of war , israel says it must take rafah to defeat hamas . but the un and us warn that an assault on the city , where more than a million displaced palestinians are sheltering , could have catastrophic consequences . a senior hamas official , sami abu zuhri , told the reuters news agency that the israeli order was " a dangerous escalation that will have consequences ". israeli air strikes in rafah reportedly killed at least 19 palestinians overnight , after rockets launched from the area by hamas fighters killed four israeli soldiers at the nearby kerem shalom border crossing - the key entry point for humanitarian aid into gaza . the crossing was closed following the attack . there have also been reports of israeli attacks on rafah , hours after the evacuation order was issued . meanwhile , the latest efforts for a new ceasefire and hostage release deal have stalled , with both israel and hamas saying they would not give ground on key demands . hamas wants a permanent end to the war , which israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu says he cannot accept . mediators said they were continuing their efforts . in an initial briefing to journalists on monday morning , israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesman lt col nadav shoshani stressed that the operation planned in rafah was of " limited scope ". he said that no timeframe had been announced and that the evacuation affecting an estimated 100 , 000 people would be carried out in " a gradual way ". the idf is using text messages , flyers and social media to tell people to move . one of the arabic flyers dropped by aircraft features a map that identifies nine area blocks in south - eastern rafah , where the idf says it will " be operating against the terrorist organisations ". they include al - shuka , al - salam , al - janina and al - yarmouk , as well as farmland near kerem shalom . the flyer instructs residents of those areas to evacuate immediately and head towards an area stretching north along the mediterranean coast from al - mawasi - a thin strip of agricultural land that has long been an idf - designated " humanitarian zone " - to khan younis and the central town of deir al - balah . the idf said the expanded humanitarian area included " field hospitals , tents and increased amounts of food , water , medication and additional supplies ". " an ongoing situation assessment will guide the gradual movement of civilians in the specified areas , to the humanitarian area ," it added . such messages are unlikely to allay the fears of those living in the city that a wider offensive is on the cards . the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa , which runs the largest humanitarian organisation in gaza , said the " consequences would be devastating for 1 . 4 million people " in rafah . the organisation added in a post on x , formerly twitter , that it would not evacuate and would maintain a presence in the city " as long as possible and will continue providing life - saving aid to people ". ghada el - kurd , a palestinian mother - of - two who has been displaced six times over the last four months , told the bbc that she was sheltering only 15 minutes away from one of the areas included in the evacuation order , but was staying put for now . " i ' m so confused , just to be honest . i have no place to go . this was the last place i know ," she said . " if i want to come back to khan younis , there is no place - it is all destroyed . [ as for ] areas of al - mawasi , they are crowded and i cannot any more live inside a tent ." " regarding deir al - balah and nuseirat [ refugee camp ], still there is a lot of air strikes there ... and it is a very dangerous area ." james elder , a spokesman for the un children ' s agency , unicef , who was in gaza last month , said families now had no choice but to head towards areas that were already overcrowded and lacked basic facilities . " they will move because they will move or be bombed . but they will move to places where there is no water - not a little bit of water , but no water - and no sanitation ," he told the bbc . for months , mr netanyahu has been insisting that victory against hamas cannot be won without a full - scale offensive in rafah . israel says rafah harbours four remaining hamas battalions , amounting to thousands of fighters . the european union ' s top diplomat , josep borrell , called monday ' s evacuation order " unacceptable ". " the eu , with the international community , can and must act to prevent such scenario ," he wrote on x . us president joe biden spoke with mr netanyahu abut rafah by phone on monday . no details of the call have yet been released . officials from israel and its closest ally , the us , have been holding meetings to discuss alternative , more focused plans . it is not clear if the new evacuation orders are part of those . in israel , some families of hostages expressed their fear about what a rafah operation might mean for their loved ones . " we are very much afraid that the idf entering rafah will risk the lives not only of innocent people , not only of soldiers , but also of some hostages ," said gil dickmann , whose two cousins were taken hostage on 7 october , one of whom was released and the other remains in captivity . the current war began when hamas fighters stormed into southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing more than 250 hostages . the israeli response has seen intense bombardment of all parts of gaza from the air and a ground invasion that has seen troops take control of most of the territory before withdrawing most troops . more than 34 , 735 palestinians have been killed , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . israel says 128 hostages remain unaccounted for in gaza , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead .