at least 42 people have been killed in air strikes in north - west syria , reports say . syria ' s defence ministry said israeli planes targeted several sites in the aleppo countryside at 01 : 45 on friday ( 22 : 45 gmt thursday ). a uk - based monitoring group said hezbollah militants and syrian soldiers died as a hezbollah arms store was hit . hours later , israel ' s military said it had killed a senior hezbollah figure in an air strike in lebanon . ali abed akhsan naim was a deputy commander of the group ' s missiles and rockets unit , the israel defense forces said , and was responsible for conducting and planning attacks on israeli civilians . video released online by israel showed a moving vehicle , which he was said to be travelling in , exploding after being struck by a missile . the strike was in the bazuriyeh area , east of the port of tyre , the idf added . hezbollah has not yet commented on the reports . the syrian observatory for human rights ( sohr ) - which monitors events in syria from the uk - said the aleppo attack had led to the highest number of dead ( 36 ) among syrian forces in a single such " israeli attack ". it also said six hezbollah fighters were killed . citing two security sources , reuters news agency said five hezbollah fighters were among the dead , putting the death toll at 38 . syria ' s defence ministry said civilians and syrian military personnel had been killed . it said the air strikes were carried out " in conjunction with " drone attacks by " terrorist organisations " against aleppo city and the surrounding area , though it did not give any further information . israel ' s military told the bbc it would not comment on foreign media reports . the sohr , which uses an extensive network of contacts in syria , said the alleged israeli strikes also caused multiple injuries , some serious . it said that the strikes hit the weapons warehouse in jabrin area , near aleppo international airport , and targeted syrian air defence forces facilities in al - saferah , about 20km ( 12 . 5 miles ), south - east of aleppo city . it also said explosions were heard in the kafr joum area of western aleppo . in recent years , israel has launched hundreds of strikes on syria against hezbollah or iranian assets there . it has vowed to prevent iran - hezbollah ' s most important backer - from transferring advanced weaponry to the lebanese group or from building up its own military presence in syria . both iran and hezbollah - syrian allies - oppose israel ' s existence . alleged israeli strikes on syria have increased since hamas , which is also supported by iran and hezbollah , carried out the 7 october attacks on israel , which triggered the war in gaza . cross - border attacks between hezbollah in lebanon and israel have also escalated . on wednesday , israeli air strikes on southern lebanon killed 16 people , including hezbollah fighters and other militants , marking the deadliest attacks of their kind since hezbollah began launching rockets at israel in support of hamas on 8 october . hours after the first israeli strike , a hezbollah rocket barrage killed a 25 - year - old man in northern israel . additional reporting by christy cooney and robert greenall