the met police has apologised after an officer said an antisemitism charity leader looked " openly jewish " as he was threatened with arrest for being near a pro - palestine march . gideon falter was wearing a kippah skull - cap when he was stopped in the aldwych area of london on saturday . he was told by police his presence was causing a " breach of peace ", in a video posted online . scotland yard apologised for the officer ' s phrase . the force then withdrew its initial statement , after " reflecting on the strength of the response " to it , and issued a second apology for causing further offence . the original statement talked about a " new trend of those opposed to the main protests appearing alongside the route to express their views ", and " knowing their presence is provocative ". however , this was criticised as victim - blaming , and the met issued a second statement saying that " being jewish is not a provocation " and apologising again . mr falter , who is chief executive of campaign against antisemitism ( caa ), said he had been walking in the capital after attending synagogue and was not there to counter - protest . in footage of the police officers speaking to mr falter , posted online by the charity , an officer said mr falter would be arrested if he remained at the scene . in response , mr falter has accused the met of creating " no - go zones " for jewish people . in the video , one police officer said : " you are quite openly jewish , this is a pro - palestinian march , i ' m not accusing you of anything but i ' m worried about the reaction to your presence ." another officer said : " you will be escorted out of this area so you can go about your business , go where you want freely or , if you choose to remain here , because you are causing a breach of peace with all these other people , you will be arrested ." the clip showed the officer saying that mr falter ' s presence was " antagonising ". mr falter said : " despite being told repeatedly that london is safe for jews when these marches are taking place , my interactions with police officers last saturday show that the met believes that being openly jewish will antagonise the anti - israel marchers and that jews need protection , which the police cannot guarantee . " instead of addressing that threat of antisemitic violence , the met ' s policy instead seems to be that law - abiding jewish londoners should not be in the parts of london where these marches are taking place . " in other words , that they are no - go zones for jews ." in the statement of apology that was issued first , met police assistant commissioner matt twist said : " the video posted by the campaign against antisemitism will further dent the confidence of many jewish londoners , which is the opposite of what any of us want . " the use of the term ' openly jewish ' by one of our officers is hugely regrettable . it ' s absolutely not the basis on which we make decisions , it was a poor choice of words and while not intended , we know it will have caused offence to many . we apologise . " in recent weeks we ' ve seen a new trend emerge , with those opposed to the main protests appearing along the route to express their views ," he added . " the fact that those who do this often film themselves while doing so suggests they must know that their presence is provocative , that they ' re inviting a response and that they ' re increasing the likelihood of an altercation . " they ' re also making it much more likely officers will intervene . they don ' t do so to stifle free speech or to limit the right to protest , but to keep opposing groups apart , to prevent disorder and keep the public - including those taking part in or opposing the protest - safe ." the caa responded to these remarks by saying the met was guilty of " appalling , abject victim - blaming ". " what is ' provocative ' is telling a jewish londoner that his presence will ' antagonise ' crowds and that unless he leaves he will be arrested ," the charity said . after the caa released its statement , the met issued its second apology . the force said : " we have reflected on the strength of the response to our previous statement . in an effort to make a point about the policing of protest we caused further offence . " this was never our intention ... and we apologise . " being jewish is not a provocation . jewish londoners must be able to feel safe in this city . " our commitment to protecting the public extends to all communities across london . it ' s important that our public statements reflect that more clearly than they did today ." mr falter also says in the video footage that he plans to attend a caa event when the next pro - palestine protest is planned in the capital , adding that no part of london should be unsafe . police said they were happy to meet with anyone who wanted to organise a march or protest . tens of thousands of pro - palestine protesters gathered in london last saturday to call for a ceasefire and to urge the uk government to stop all arms sales to israel . listen to the best of bbc radio london on sounds and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your story ideas to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk