more than 200 university staff have signed an open letter in support of student pro - palestinian protesters . the academics at durham university have called on management to " constructively and substantively enter negotiations " with the students . the protesters have set up an encampment on palace green and have been campaigning against the israel - gaza war since 10 may . the university said it was in " regular dialogue " with the students and supported the right to " lawful protest and freedom of speech where it is done in a safe and respectful way ". the campaigners are calling for the university to disclose all investments , collaborations and partnerships from any firm or organisation " complicit in israel ’ s violations of human rights and international law ". as of 23 may , 222 staff members had signed the letter . dr philip goff , who works in the university ' s philosophy department and is one of the academics who signed the letter , told the bbc that the demands of the students could help in part put pressure on british politicians to force israel to end illegal settlements . " the demands of the protesters for the university to disclose investments from any organisation complicit in israel ’ s violations of international law represent one small part of the pressure that needs to be applied ," he said . pro - palestinian protests have been happening at universities around the country . earlier this month , the leaders of 17 universities met the prime minister to discuss the protests and steps they should take to tackle antisemitism . according to the hamas - run health ministry , more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in israel ' s offensive in gaza , the majority of them civilians . israel rejects accusations that it is engaging in genocidal acts in gaza , and has insisted it has the right to defend itself following the armed incursion by hamas on 7 october . durham university pro - vice chancellor dr shaid mahmood said : " we welcome the opportunity for continued , open conversation with all our students ." a spokesperson for the student protesters said they were " delighted " to see so many staff members back them ." our demands are fair and reasonable - and while we enter early discussions with the university , it reinforces the view that there is large support behind our encampment and demands ," they said . " we are looking forward to continuing discussions with the university and seeing our demands being met ." follow bbc north east on x ( formerly twitter ), facebook and instagram . send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .