jacob flickinger was a " loyal and devoted " aid worker and family man who was " chased down " and killed by israel while trying to help those in need , his parents have told the bbc . mr flickinger , 33 , a us - canadian , was one of seven people killed in a strike on a world central kitchen convoy . israel ' s military apologised and called the attack a tragic mistake . it has promised a full investigation . his parents however said that his death was a " crime " and rejected the apology . john flickinger and sylvia labrecque said there was a " hole in their hearts ", and that jacob ' s wife sandy and 18 - month old son jasper were bereft without a husband and father . speaking from quebec , they said he and the other workers were killed while travelling on a road designated by israel as a safe humanitarian route . mr flickinger said the charity had reported 24 hours in advance that their convoy would be dropping food at a warehouse , and stayed in touch with the israel defense forces throughout the process , but still israel attacked and " they continued firing until all the workers were dead ," he said . " israel owes the families and the world an explanation ." his mother , ms labrecque , said that israeli pm benjamin netanyahu ' s description of the attack as a " tragic accident " was - in her view - " a joke ". " he was such a good human being ," she said of her son . " he was extremely devoted to his work and his family ." jacob , who had previously served 11 years in the armed forces , went to gaza in march out of a desire to help others , his family said . " his life has been about service ," said mr flickinger , adding that even despite this , he was worried about his son travelling through a war zone as dangerous as gaza . " but [ jacob ] felt the world central kitchen knew what they were doing there ," he said , and his son " knew that people were starving out there ". his parents called on the us to stop sending military aid to israel while the country was using " food as a weapon " - a reference to the lack of aid getting into gaza . " the us has great leverage over israel ," mr flickinger said . jacob ' s parents also called for a ceasefire , a return of all israeli hostages held by hamas and for more aid to war - torn gaza . mr flickinger also said he wanted the us government to launch an independent investigation into the killings of humanitarian workers , as well as for israel to pay reparations to relatives who have lost loved ones in gaza . " justice can start there , but most critically , end this insanity ," he said . " i grew up without having a father ," mr flickinger said . " now my grandson will grow up without having his father ." ms labrecque said she hoped their grandson , jasper , would serve as a reminder of their son ' s life and goodness . " it ' s going to be a day - to - day job , to heal from that loss ," she said . " but jasper will be a very good inspiration for us to stay strong ." mr flickinger said that he had spoken to the canadian government , but had not heard from the white house . he said he was told about his son ' s death from the us embassy in israel . " i would like to hear from someone in the us government ," he said , adding that the canadian government had been " very helpful ". wck - founded by the famous spanish - american chef jose andrés - was one of the main suppliers of desperately needed aid to gaza , where more than 33 , 000 palestinians have been killed since the 7 october hamas attacks . around 200 humanitarian workers in total have been killed in the conflict , according to aid groups . about 1 , 200 israelis were killed and 253 hostages were taken by hamas in its 7 october attack on israel .