tens of thousands of people have marched in central london calling for an immediate ceasefire in gaza . the demonstration , organised by the palestine solidarity campaign ( psc ), made its way from hyde park corner to the us embassy in nine elms . it was the 10th pro - palestinian march in central london since israel started its campaign in gaza following the 7 october attacks on israel by hamas . singer charlotte church was seen at the front of the march as it set off . the welsh singer , who has been a vocal campaigner , said she had joined to " show solidarity " with palestinians " for all that they are suffering through ". during the course of the event , metropolitan police officers arrested four people on suspicion of public order offences , including for chanting offensive slogans or holding an offensive placard , while one man was arrested for assault . a further man was also arrested for assault " during an altercation between protesters and counter - protesters in order to prevent a breach of the peace " but he was later de - arrested , the met added . it said there had been no " significant public order disturbance " at any protest on saturday . the march came after the government ' s counter - extremism commissioner this week said london had become a " no - go zone for jews " at the weekends during the demonstrations . and earlier , mark gardner , who leads the community security trust which provides security for the jewish community , told bbc radio 4 ' s today programme some jewish people were choosing to avoid central london because of the demonstrations . he said : " again and again just people saying ' i ' m not going into town at the weekend because of these demonstrations ... i don ' t want the risk that they realise i ' m jewish and start shouting abuse at me '." but march organiser ben jamal called the no - go zone comments " disgraceful ". " the reality is , you will see these are people from all walks of life from many backgrounds who here marching for peace , and as the police themselves admit these marches are overwhelmingly peaceful ," he added . church , who was among an all - female line - up of speakers at the rally , to mark international women ' s day , said : " there ' s been singing there ' s been drumming , yes , there ' s been emotion , but in the majority that emotion has been love , has been compassion because that ' s why we ' re all here ." also at the march was former labour leader jeremy corbyn , who now sits as an independent mp . he told pa news agency the demonstration was " enormous and we ' re here because we ' re appalled at the bombing that ' s still going on in gaza ". israel ' s military launched an air and ground campaign in the gaza strip after hamas ' s deadly attacks on israel on 7 october , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 30 , 800 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . the conflict has created a growing humanitarian crisis in the territory and the un has warned that famine in gaza is " almost inevitable ". at least 576 , 000 people across the gaza strip - one quarter of the population - are facing catastrophic levels of food insecurity and one in six children under the age of two in the north are suffering from acute malnutrition , a senior un aid official warned last week .