israel says hamas ' s rejection of a current proposal for a gaza truce deal with israel shows the " damage " done by the un security council resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire . prime minister benjamin netanyahu ' s office said israel would not surrender to what it called the palestinian armed group ' s " delusional demands ". they include an end to the war and the complete withdrawal of israeli forces . the us called the israeli statement " inaccurate in almost every respect ". a state department spokesman insisted that hamas ' s response had been prepared before the security council vote on monday . the israeli military meanwhile said it had confirmed that the deputy leader of hamas ' s military wing , marwan issa , was killed in a strike on a tunnel complex beneath nuseirat refugee camp about two weeks ago . " we have checked all the intelligence ," spokesman rear admiral daniel hagari said . " marwan issa was eliminated in the strike ." hamas political official izzat al - rishq said he had " no confidence " in the israeli claim and that the group ' s military leadership would have the " final say ". rear admiral hagari described issa as the group ' s " number three " and " one of the organisers " of hamas ' s attacks on southern israel on 7 october , when about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others taken hostage . more than 32 , 400 people have been killed in gaza since then , including 81 people in the past 24 hours , according to the hamas - run health ministry . israel reacted furiously after the un security council adopted for the first time a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in the war in gaza following months of deadlock over the issue . fourteen council members , including the uk , voted in favour of the text , which also demanded the unconditional release of all remaining hostages and an urgent expansion of humanitarian aid deliveries . the us - israel ' s closest ally and military supporter - criticised the resolution for failing to condemn hamas for the 7 october attacks . but in a sign of its increasing frustration at the way israel is conducting the war , the us abstained , saying it fully supported the key objectives . in protest , israel cancelled a planned visit by an israeli delegation to washington to discuss its planned ground offensive in the southern city of rafah , where more than a million people have sought shelter . the us has warned that a full - scale assault could cause a humanitarian catastrophe . later , hamas put out a statement rejecting the latest truce plan put forward by mediators from the us , qatar and egypt at indirect talks in doha . the group said it was sticking to its original demands for " a permanent ceasefire that would lead to a full withdrawal " of israeli forces from gaza and the return of displaced palestinians to their homes . on tuesday morning , the israeli prime minister ' s office said hamas ' s stance " clearly demonstrates its utter disinterest in a negotiated deal and attests to the damage done by the un security council ' s resolution ". " israel will not address hamas ' s delusional demands ," it added . " israel will pursue and achieve its just war objectives : destroying hamas ' s military and governmental capacities , release of all the hostages , and ensuring gaza will not pose a threat to the people of israel in the future ." but us state department spokesman matthew miller rejected the criticism . " that statement is inaccurate in almost every respect and it is unfair to the hostages and their families ," he told reporters in washington . " the description of hamas ' s response that has been aired in the public is all from news reports . it ' s not the actual substance of the response . i can tell you that response was prepared before the un security council vote , not after it ." qatar ' s foreign ministry spokesman , majed al - ansari , told a news conference in doha that the indirect talks " are ongoing , they have not stopped ". " there is no timetable for negotiations , but we are continuing with our partners in mediation efforts ," he said , adding that they were currently taking place " at the level of technical teams ". however , israeli media and reuters news agency cited israeli officials as saying that israel had recalled its negotiating team from qatar after 10 days of talks . hamas ' s political leader , ismail haniyeh , said during a visit to iran - which arms and funds the group - that the resolution showed israel was experiencing " unprecedented political isolation ". during a week - long ceasefire in late november , 105 hostages were freed in return for some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . the latest deal rejected by hamas reportedly proposed a six - week pause in the fighting and the release of 40 of the hostages still being held by hamas in exchange for as many as 800 palestinian prisoners . there was no indication of a let - up in the war on the ground in gaza , with the latest israeli air strikes reportedly killing dozens of palestinians . palestinian media and local health officials said at least 18 people , including nine children , were killed in a strike on a residential building on the outskirts of rafah . they said the home in the musabah area belonged to the abu naqira family and that dozens of displaced people had been sheltering there . in northern gaza , members of the abu hasira family told reuters news agency that about 30 people had been killed in a strike on a family compound near gaza city ' s al - shifa hospital . israel ' s military said on tuesday morning that it had struck 60 targets over the previous 24 hours , including " terror tunnels , terrorist infrastructure , and military structures in which armed terrorists were identified ". it added that israeli forces were also " continuing to conduct precise operational activity in the al - shifa hospital area ", eight days after they began a raid targeting hamas and islamic jihad fighters it said had regrouped there . palestinians and aid groups say the fierce fighting is endangering patients , medics and displaced civilians trapped inside with few supplies . the military said 175 " terrorists " have been killed and that no civilians have been harmed . also on tuesday , gaza ' s hamas - run government media office said 18 palestinians had been killed while trying to collect aid that was airdropped over northern gaza , amid warnings of an imminent famine there . twelve people drowned when they went in the sea to retrieve food packages , according to a statement . the other six were trampled to death in " stampedes " when other aid packages landed on the ground , it said . the statement provided no further details about the incidents . however , video footage appeared to show the drowning of at least one person after an airdrop off a beach near the northern town of beit lahia on monday . the pentagon said three of the 18 bundles of aid airdropped by us aircraft over northern gaza on monday had parachute malfunctions and fell into the water , but could not confirm if anyone was killed , reuters reported . in another development , the family of israeli hostage uriel baruch was informed by the military that he had been killed and that his body was being held by hamas , according to the hostage and missing families forum . the 35 - year - old father of two was injured and kidnapped during the attack on the supernova music festival on 7 october . meanwhile , a female hostage who was released in november told the new york times that she was sexually assaulted at gunpoint by a guard in gaza . amit soussana , 40 , is the first former hostage to say publicly that she was sexually abused in captivity , according to the newspaper . hamas has denied that its members have sexually abused people in captivity . but this month , a un team said it found " clear and convincing information " that hostages had been subjected to sexual violence and that there were " reasonable grounds to believe that such violence may be ongoing ".