dozens of pro - palestinian demonstrators at columbia university have escalated their protest over the war in gaza by occupying an academic building . activists at the university in new york city seized hamilton hall early on tuesday , barricading themselves inside . one student said the campus was " lawless ", as officials grapple with the long - running demo which has prompted a wave of rallies elsewhere . columbia has urged students and staff to stay away from campus on tuesday . it earlier began suspending students who defied monday ' s deadline of 14 : 00 est ( 18 : 00 gmt ) to leave their two - week encampment nearby . but as the deadline passed , dozens of students rallied at the site . columbia students for justice in palestine ( sjp ), one of the main protest groups , vowed to defy the order in a post on x , and called on activists to " protect the encampment ". the group later announced the takeover of hamilton hall , highlighting that the venue was also the focus of student protests in 1968 . another group , columbia university apartheid divest ( cuad ), said it had " reclaimed " the building in honour of hind rajab , a six - year - old girl found dead in gaza earlier this year . one student described the campus as " lawless , utter anarchy ", with demonstrators breaking the building ' s windows to enter , before blocking the doors with furniture . speaking to the bbc ' s us partner cbs news , jessica schwalb said the group had entered with " bags full of stuff ", adding : " i ' m guessing they ' re going to be living in there indefinitely ." demonstrations have rocked campuses across the us in recent weeks , sparked by new york police clearing an earlier encampment at columbia . hundreds of people have been arrested across the country - among them dozens of protesters at the university of texas at austin on monday . officials there said protesters had ignored directions to take down their tents and that " baseball - size rocks " had been found in the encampment . the un human rights chief volker turk has voiced his concern that some law enforcement actions witnessed on american campuses have been " disproportionate in their impacts ". " freedom of expression and the right to peaceful assembly are fundamental to society ," he added in a statement . at virginia commonwealth university ( vcu ) in richmond , students said police used tear gas and pepper spray against their gathering on monday . the university said the group had been " repeatedly " asked to leave , and echoed other institutions by saying many of those involved in the demonstration were not students . elsewhere , there has been a rare agreement reached in evanston , illinois , between northwestern university and protesters who have camped out for days in solidarity with the palestinians . under the deal , the university said it would permit " peaceful demonstrations ", provided the encampment was limited to a single tent . activists across the us are demanding that their universities , many with massive endowments , financially divest from israel . divestment means to sell or otherwise drop financial ties . pressure has been building on the leadership of columbia - an elite ivy league university in upper manhattan - to act , or step aside . posting on x before the occupation of hamilton hall , us house speaker mike johnson labelled the scenes at columbia an " utter disgrace " and called on the university ' s president to step down . columbia ' s campus has become the focal point of the country ' s debate over the war in gaza and us support for israel , as well as fears that antisemitism is putting jewish students in danger . earlier on monday , a group of house democrats urged its board of trustees to resign if it could not " act decisively , disband the encampment , and ensure the safety and security of all of its students ". annual tuition and fees for columbia add up to around $ 90 , 000 (£ 72 , 000 ) for undergraduates , making it one of the most expensive universities in the us . more than 100 people were arrested when police raided the earlier encampment on 18 april . but activists redoubled their efforts , regrouping in another encampment and prompting university leadership to move to hybrid learning . a statement on monday from columbia ' s president , dr minouche shafik , reiterated that the university " will not divest from israel ", and that talks between academic leaders and student organisers had failed to result in an agreement . several hours after the deadline passed for students to take down their camp - and before the break - in at hamilton hall was reported - another official said the university had started to suspend students . this makes them ineligible to graduate . officials say they want to avoid any disruption to graduation ceremonies on 15 may . another of the protesters ' demands is amnesty for activists who face disciplinary action from the university . for now , the cluster of tents remains in place . mahmoud khalil , one of the students who has been negotiating with columbia officials , told the bbc that protesters believed it was " highly probable " that police would again be called in again . " the students are here ," added mr khalil , who said he was a palestinian refugee who grew up in syria . " they are holding their ground ." many wore face coverings , telling the bbc they were worried about being recognised and facing recrimination . but the university wrote in its letter on monday that it had already identified several participants . the bbc is tracking protests or encampments on campuses in at least 22 other states and washington dc . they have also been reported in canada , france and australia . jewish students on numerous campuses have voiced concern about their safety , amid alleged incidents of harassment and threats of violence by some protests participants , the white house is walking an increasingly fine line over the campus protests , seeking to balance the right to peaceful protest with condemnation of hate speech . " it is a painful moment , we get that ," press secretary karine jean - pierre said . declining to say how university leadership should act , she added : " free expression has to be done within the law ." republicans , including former president donald trump , have also highlighted antisemitic chants and incidents at the protests .