a dual us - israeli citizen who was earlier believed to be held hostage by jihadists was actually killed in the 7 october hamas attacks , according to the israel defense forces . itay chen was a soldier for the idf serving near the gaza border . the 19 - year - old ' s body was taken by hamas after he was killed and remains in gaza , the idf said on tuesday . more than 100 israeli hostages are still thought to be held alive by hamas . the war began when hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . more than 31 , 000 palestinians have been killed in israel ' s retaliatory air strikes and its ongoing ground offensive , the hamas - run health ministry says . president joe biden said he and first lady jill biden were devastated to learn of chen ' s passing . " today , our hearts are heavy ," he said in a statement . " i reaffirm my pledge to all the families of those still held hostage : we are with you . we will never stop working to bring your loved ones home ." mr biden said chen ' s father and brother came to the white house in december to " share the agony and uncertainty they ' ve faced as they prayed for the safe return of their loved one ". " no one should have to endure even one day of what they have gone through ," mr biden said . in a statement , the hostages and missing families forum said it shared " in the profound grief of the chen family ". " itay loved the land , going on hikes , and was a senior instructor in youth movements - a salt of the earth person ," the group wrote on x . chen had decided to work at his base on the gaza border on 7 october to get time off for his brother ' s bar mitzvah , a ceremony that marks the transition into jewish adulthood . his family lost communication with him after he told them his base was under attack . " no one has been able to physically locate him - he is not in hospital , not on the deceased list ," his father ruby chen , said at a news conference after the attacks . one hundred and thirty four people are still being held hostage by hamas in gaza , including 34 who are believed to be dead , israeli government spokesperson eylon levy wrote on tuesday in a post on x , formerly known as twitter . hopes that a 40 - day ceasefire agreement could be reached before the start of the islamic month of ramadan this week have faded . during a week - long ceasefire in late november , 105 hostages - most of them women and children - were freed in return for some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . israel says there have been 590 israeli military casualties since 7 october .