hamas says it has submitted its response to a us - backed plan for a ceasefire in gaza , with a senior group official telling the bbc that it still requires an israeli commitment to a permanent ceasefire . in a statement , the group , and its palestinian islamic jihad ( pij ) allies , expressed " readiness to positively " reach a deal . the proposed ceasefire plan - which was endorsed by the un security council on monday night - calls for a six - week ceasefire that would eventually become permanent . qatar and egypt - who , along with the us , have mediated negotiations between israel and hamas - confirmed that the palestinian group had submitted its reply . in its statement on tuesday evening , hamas called for a " complete halt " to fighting in gaza . " the response prioritises the interests of our palestinian people and emphasises the necessity of a complete halt to the ongoing aggression on gaza ," hamas and the pij said . the groups added that they were ready " to engage positively to reach an agreement that ends this war ". white house national security spokesperson john kirby said it was " helpful " that hamas had submitted a response and that us officials were " evaluating " the group ' s requests . earlier on tuesday us secretary of state antony blinken said israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu had " reaffirmed his commitment " to the gaza ceasefire plan and the world was waiting for the hamas response . the proposal set out by president biden last month involves an initial six - week ceasefire , with hamas releasing some hostages in exchange for israel releasing an undefined number of palestinian prisoners . a second phase would see the remaining hostages released by hamas and a total withdrawal of israeli forces from gaza as part of a “ permanent ” ceasefire , but the latter would still be subject to negotiations . the actual israeli proposal - reportedly lengthier than the summary presented by mr biden - has not been made public and it is unclear whether it varies from what the president conveyed in his statement on 31 may . it was presented to hamas days prior to mr biden ' s speech . mr netanyahu has acknowledged his war cabinet has authorised the plan but has not voiced unequivocal support for it . far right members of his cabinet have threatened to quit his coalition and trigger its collapse if the deal goes forward , seeing it as surrender to hamas . as mr blinken met israeli officials in tel aviv on tuesday , protesters outside his hotel held american flags calling for an agreement . many held pictures of hostages and chanted : " sos , usa ", and " we trust you , blinken , seal a deal ". vicki cohen , the mother of nimrod cohen , 19 , an israeli soldier who was kidnapped by hamas on 7 october , held a banner showing his picture . she told the bbc : " we come here to ask blinken and the usa government to help us , to save us from our government . our prime minister doesn ' t want to bring our loved ones back , we need their help to pressure our government ." he then travelled to the dead sea for a conference of arab leaders calling for greater aid access into gaza , where he said israel " can do more ". he also announced $ 404 million in new aid for palestinians , urging other countries to also " step up " assistance . the war began after hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 251 others back to gaza as hostages . the hamas - run health ministry in gaza says more than 37 , 000 people have been killed in the israeli offensive since then .