the un agency for palestinian refugees says a member of staff was killed and 22 others were injured when israeli forces hit a food distribution centre in rafah , in the southern gaza strip . unrwa chief philippe lazzarini said attacks on its facilities had " become commonplace in blatant disregard to international humanitarian law ". the hamas - run health ministry said an israeli air strike killed five people . the israeli military said it killed a hamas commander in a " precise strike ". it identified him as mohammed abu hasna and alleged that he had been a " combat support operative " in hamas ' s military wing in the rafah area . a man with that name was on a list of five fatalities given by health officials . rafah is crammed with an estimated 1 . 5 million palestinians who are seeking shelter from israel ' s ground offensive elsewhere in gaza . the un ' s secretary general has warned that a threatened israeli assault on the city could " plummet the people of gaza into an even deeper circle of hell ". the war in gaza began when hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 253 others as hostages . more than 31 , 200 people have been killed in gaza in the military campaign that israel launched in response , according to the hamas - run health ministry . wednesday ' s strike reportedly hit the eastern side of the unrwa food distribution centre , which is in the eastern part of rafah . unrwa spokeswoman juliette touma told the bbc that up to 60 people were believed to have been working at the facility , which also served as a warehouse for food and other critical supplies . " we know that it is the israeli forces who were responsible . our teams were on site and they reported back the casualties ," she said . pictures of the aftermath showed a pool of blood in a courtyard outside a blue - and - white painted warehouse , and another pool just inside the doorway of the building , next to boxes of aid . a 15 - year - old boy and four men aged between 27 and 50 , one of them called mohamed abu hasna , were reported killed . people were also filmed at a local hospital next to the bodies of five people , one of whom was a man wearing a blue un tabard . " it ' s a unrwa centre , expected to be secure ," unrwa staff member sami abu salim told the afp news agency as he surveyed the damage . " some came to work to distribute aid to the people in need of food during the [ islamic ] holy month of ramadan . suddenly , they were struck by two missiles ." on wednesday evening , the israel defense forces ( idf ) put out a statement saying its aircraft had " precisely targeted and eliminated a terrorist in hamas ' s operations unit in the area of rafah , mohammed abu hasna ", without mentioning the unrwa facility . " he was also involved in taking control of humanitarian aid and distributing it to hamas terrorists ," it added . " furthermore , [ abu ] hasna co - ordinated the activities of various hamas units , as well as communicated with and activated hamas field operatives . [ abu ] hasna was also responsible for an intelligence operations room which provides information on idf positions for use in hamas attacks ." mr lazzarini said : " today ' s attack on one of the very few remaining unrwa distribution centres in the gaza strip comes as food supplies are running out , hunger is widespread and , in some areas , turning into famine ." " every day , we share the co - ordinates of all our facilities across the gaza strip with parties to the conflict . the israeli army received the co - ordinates including of this facility yesterday ." unrwa says at least 165 of its 13 , 000 employees in gaza have been killed and more than 150 of its facilities have been hit since the start of the war . more than 400 people have also been killed while seeking shelter under the un flag , according to the agency . israel has accused unrwa of supporting hamas , which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk , us and other countries . the agency has denied this , but in january it sacked nine of the 12 employees accused in an israeli document of playing a part in the 7 october attacks . the un has yet to publish the results of an internal investigation launched as the us and other donors paused funding in response to the allegations .