israel has unveiled its revised entry for the eurovision song contest , after the original version was rejected for its perceived political overtones . eden golan will now sing hurricane , a rewritten version of october rain , which was thought to reference the 7 october hamas attacks on israel . the soaring , impassioned piano ballad premiered on israeli tv on sunday . the lyrics now told the story of a woman experiencing a personal crisis , said israel ' s public broadcaster , kan . the european broadcasting union ( ebu ), which organises eurovision , rejected october rain last month . lyrics such as " there ' s no air left to breathe ," and " they were all good children , each one of them ," were seen as references to the victims of hamas ' s deadly attack , which triggered israel ' s current ground offensive in gaza . kan initially refused to change the song , saying it would prefer to withdraw from the contest - but israel ' s president , isaac herzog , later called for " necessary adjustments " to ensure the country could participate . the broadcaster said : " the president emphasised that at this time in particular , when those who hate us seek to push aside and boycott the state of israel from every stage , israel must sound its voice with pride and its head high and raise its flag in every world forum , especially this year ." musically , hurricane is the same song as october rain - but the lyrics are now more general , with phrases such as " every day , i ' m losing my mind " and " i ' m still broken from this hurricane ." as expected , the phrase " october rain " has been excised completely . another significant change is the word " flowers " has been replaced by " powers ". according to the israel hayom newspaper , the former is often used to denote israel ' s war fatalities . the spoken - word section , which golan delivers in hebrew , has also been altered . the original references to poisoned air and dead children have been switched for the more generic : " no need for big words , only prayers . even if it ' s hard to see , you always leave me one small light ." as the song was revealed , golan , 20 , addressed the difficulty of representing israel at such a politically sensitive time . " i ended up in a not simple year ," she told the times of israel . " but on the other hand , i even more so want to represent the country this year , because of its meaning - it has a totally different significance . " and we can bring everything we ' re feeling , and everything the country is going through , in those three minutes . to speak through the song to the world ." israel has won euorvision four times since its first appearance , in 1973 . last year , it was represented by pop sensation noa kirel , whose acrobatic dance number unicorn placed third . but the country has faced serious opposition to its participation in this year ' s contest , due to concerns over the humanitarian cost of the war in gaza . last week , belgium ' s french - speaking culture minister , benedicte linard , called for israel to be banned as long as the war continued . " just like russia has been excluded from competitions and eurovision following its invasion of ukraine , israel should be excluded until it puts an end to its flagrant violations of international law , which are causing thousands of victims , especially children ," she wrote on x , formerly known as twitter . israel insists its ground offensive is in line with international law . its military has repeatedly said it goes out of its way to try to avoid harming civilians . ms linard also told parliament on wednesday she would ask public broadcaster radio - télévision belge de la communauté française ( rtbf ), which is organising belgium ' s entry to eurovision , to voice the concerns to the ebu . her flemish counterpart , benjamin dalle , said an israeli suspension would be appropriate while so many palestinian civilians were suffering , according to flemish broadcaster vrt . musicians in several countries have also called for israel to be suspended from the contest . before he was selected to represent the uk , olly alexander also endorsed a statement accusing israel of genocide . an israeli official later told the uk ' s daily telegraph newspaper the arguments were " absurd " and accused alexander and his fellow signatories of " anti - israel bias ". israel launched an air and ground campaign in gaza after hamas ' s 7 october attacks , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 taken hostage . more than 30 , 800 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says .