an ai - generated image depicting tent camps for displaced palestinians and a slogan that reads all eyes on rafah is sweeping social media . the post has been shared more than 47 million times by instagram users including celebrities like dua lipa , lewis hamilton and gigi and bella hadid . the image and the slogan went viral after an israeli air strike and resulting fire at a camp for displaced palestinians in the southern gaza city of rafah earlier this week . the hamas - run health ministry said at least 45 people were killed and hundreds more wounded in the incident . israel said it had targeted two hamas commanders , and that the deadly fire was possibly caused by a secondary explosion . there has been widespread international condemnation of the israeli strike , which israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu called a “ tragic mishap ”. following the incident , the image went viral after a young man in malaysia posted it on his social media account , bbc arabic discovered . so how did this image come about ? the deadly incident earlier this week in rafah led to people posting clips of richard peeperkorn , a representative of the world health organization in the occupied palestinian territories , speaking in february . he told journalists at the time that “ all eyes are on rafah ", warning against israeli forces attacking the city . speaking via an online call to journalists at the un ' s headquarters in geneva , mr peeperkorn said he feared " unimaginable disaster " if the israeli army made a large - scale incursion into the city , which it was threatening to invade . officials and activists have been repeating mr peeperkorn ' s phrase since then to express their concern and opposition to israel ' s military operation in rafah , which began three weeks ago . in the months that followed the first use of the phrase , all eyes on rafah slogans appeared at rallies around the world and on social media . but in the last two days , the ai - generated image featuring the slogan has proliferated on social media sites , with more than 47 million shares according to an instagram count on thursday afternoon . other celebrities who have shared the image and the slogan include american actor mark ruffalo , indian actress priyanka chopra and syrian actress kinda alloush . experts who spoke to the bbc say there are a number of factors that explain why the all eyes on rafah message has gone viral in such a short amount of time . among them are the ai - generated nature of the image , the simplicity of the slogan , the ease at which instagram users can share the post in just a couple of clicks , and its uptake by celebrities . but according to anastasia kavada , who runs an ma course on media , campaigning and social change at the university of westminster , the most important factor is the timing and political context of the post . she explains that it has gone viral at a time when many feel " outraged " at the news of the strike on the camp in rafah . this view is echoed by maher nammari , an e - marketing and artificial intelligence consultant , who emphasises the importance of the nature of the incident itself and the online interaction that followed ." sunday ' s attack in rafah has caused widespread sadness ", he told bbc arabic . what makes it more shareable still , however , is the ai - generated image in the post itself , experts say . the image - depicting a vast desert and a tent camp with the text all eyes on rafah on it - does not show a real place or the city of rafah . notably absent are pictures of dead bodies , blood , shots of real people , names or distressing scenes . this has led to criticism from some quarters . dr paul reilly , a senior lecturer in communications , media and democracy at the university of glasgow , says that some activists will feel concerned that the image does not show the true extent of what ' s really happening on the ground , pointing to material posted on social media by journalists in gaza which has not gained such viral prominence . reacting to the criticism , the malaysian artist who created the image - known by his username shahv4012 - wrote in an instagram story quoted by time magazine : “ there are people who are not satisfied with the picture and template , i apologize if i have made a mistake on all of you ." but he added : “ whatever [ you do ], don ’ t look down on the rafah issue now , spread it so that they are shaken and afraid of the spread of all of us .” but while the image depicts a somewhat " sanitised " version of what is going on in rafah , dr reilly says that could be an advantage from a digital activist ' s perspective in terms of its share - ability . he explains that this is because the image does not contain graphic content that could lead to its removal from instagram for infringing its terms of use guidelines , while also increasing awareness of the issue that activists seek to bring attention to . tools developed by instagram have also contributed to taking the post viral . when " shahv4012 " published the picture , he used the “ add yours ” feature , launched by instagram in 2021 , which allows other users to re - share the photo with just a couple of clicks . people can also add their own captions and tags to the posts , making them easy to customise and share . mr nammari says that the use of such a feature in political or social campaigns is a recent development .“ in most cases , anyone who starts using this feature for political reasons aims to contribute to launching large - scale campaigns , because the [ post ] snowballs [ in popularity ]," he says . a smaller counter - campaign has been launched on social media in response to the all eyes on rafah message . an image , also created using ai , features the words : " where were your eyes on october 7 ?" referring to the hamas attacks on southern israel in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others taken hostage . the image , reportedly designed by israeli instagram user benjamin jamon , features a gunman standing in front of a baby taken captive in gaza . the image was shared about half a million times before the image was removed from some accounts and mr jamon ' s instagram account was banned , according to israeli media . the image later reappeared , with instagram ' s parent company meta saying : " this image does not violate our policies " and that it was " working to understand a technical issue that led to some instances " of it being " mistakenly removed ." at least 36 , 170 people have been killed across gaza since the start of the conflict , according to the hamas - run health ministry .