as deadly israeli bombardments and acute food shortages continue , and a threatened israeli military operation in southern gaza looms , more and more palestinians are seeking a way out - if they can find the money for it . this uncertain exit requires people to pay thousands of dollars and navigate scammers and misinformation to get their names onto a list of people approved to leave via the rafah crossing to egypt . the crossing is closed to the vast majority of people under an egyptian - israeli blockade against hamas . only some foreign passport holders and their dependents have been able to leave , as well as some seriously wounded and sick people and those accompanying them . however , a parallel system exists whereby gazans pay egyptian brokers to get on a list of people who can leave . depending on who you talk to , prices range from $ 6 , 000 (£ 4 , 800 ) per person to over $ 12 , 000 - exorbitant sums for most of gaza ' s population . yet increasing numbers of people are trying to raise the money to flee , with the help of friends and family in the us and europe . among them are the hammads , currently displaced along with more than a million others in rafah next to the egyptian border . their 15 - year - old son ibrahim has down ' s syndrome . for him , the israeli bombardment is particularly traumatic . video posted by the family shows him shaking in distress after each thunderous boom from nearby airstrikes . his father abed alqader says they have had to resuscitate him three times after he stopped breathing due to severe panic attacks . he says ibrahim has been begging for the family to leave , saying " please father , i cannot continue ". " for the last five months , all you hear are sounds of bombs , heavy bombing ," mr hammad added . " you just sit home and pray you will not be next ." their online fundraising page , like most , is being managed outside gaza , in their case by another son amjad , who lives in europe . it is one fundraiser among thousands , appealing for donors to assist gazans to " survive ", " evacuate " and " escape genocide ". some campaigns have been successful , raising over $ 100 , 000 . however , the bbc spoke to several of these account holders who , even after achieving their fundraising goals , said their desperate attempts to help loved ones were mired in chaos and confusion . in the words of one fundraiser , a new jersey woman who asked to remain anonymous to avoid risking the chance of hindering her cousin ' s way out : " every day is a toss - up ." the first challenge is determining the cost to leave . fundraising account holders who spoke to the bbc said the most common price was $ 6 , 000 per person , allowing people to leave within 72 hours . some people fundraise toward the goal of $ 12 , 000 per person , the price said to get an exit within 24 hours . once enough money is raised , the next challenge becomes getting tens of thousands of dollars into gaza . there are few wire services like western union left in the devastated territory , and the line to enter is days - long . some people have used cryptocurrency exchanges . others have relied on paypal accounts registered elsewhere , as the firm doesn ' t provide services to people in gaza or the occupied west bank . most people , however , wire the money to someone outside of gaza - a relative or friend in europe - who then withdraws the cash , and travels to egypt to wait in a separate days - long line at the offices of hala travel in cairo , an agency that facilitates travel between egypt and gaza . footage from outside the hala offices shows crowds thronging the street . hala has not responded to requests for comment from the bbc . however , the bbc has obtained a copy of a receipt from hala travel dated 13 february for $ 6 , 000 . the person ' s name on that receipt also appears with four others on a separate ticket indicating they have been cleared for entry into egypt . visas and onward travel to cairo are included . the final step is to check for approval online . places like the gaza ministry of foreign affairs facebook account publish daily lists of up to 250 approved names . all have paid thousands to get out , according to the person who provided the receipt , who asked to remain anonymous . people whose names appear on the official list must leave the same day . however , due to spotty wifi service and rolling blackouts , some people miss their window to exit and have to repeat the entire process , including paying again , this person says . the man who provided the hala receipt told the bbc that the names of those on the official list to enter egypt only appear after they ' ve been vetted by egyptian intelligence . " is this new ? no . it ' s not really new , but the price before the war was $ 600 . now it ' s 10 times higher ," he says . " gaza is not only under bombardment , but people are profiting from their suffering ." hamas , the palestinian group which was governing gaza and launched the attack targeting civilians in southern israel that triggered the current war , has also accused " companies , individuals and people with influence " of exploiting gazans by " making them pay exorbitant amounts to coordinate their travel ". egypt ' s foreign minister sameh shoukry has told sky news that his country is investigating . we will take whatever measures that we need so as to restrict it and eliminate it immediately ," he said , without giving further details . in january , egypt ' s state information service head diaa rashwan " categorically denied the allegations related to the collection of additional fees from travellers from gaza , as well as claims that an unofficial entity collected fees for the passage to egyptian lands ". egypt was trying to help gaza ' s palestinians , he added , and did not want to impose extra burdens on them . much of the crowdfunding is being led by friends and relatives who live abroad and have looked on helplessly as israeli bombardment kills whole families and reduces neighbourhoods to rubble . " it ' s heartbreaking to watch ," says shahd , a woman in the us state of virginia who asked only to go by her first name . she helped organise a campaign for her friends , two brothers , whom she met on tiktok in 2021 . her own relatives in gaza were killed in october , she says . shahd felt compelled to aid her friends after witnessing their narrow escapes from death - on one occasion being hit by flying masonry as a nearby building exploded . since then , they have been struggling to survive amid gaza ' s deepening humanitarian crisis and , they say , navigating the gang rule that has replaced social cohesion . " there ' s moments where [ the brothers ] are like , ' we really can ' t do this anymore . it might be better if we were killed '," shahd says . " they ' re basically like family to me at this point . if anything were to happen to them , i ' d probably lose it ." the fundraising page for shahd ' s friends and some of their family has reached over $ 105 , 000 . but sending it to them has been difficult . their fundraising account was frozen for several days in february , blocking her from transferring the money . and the brothers ' paypal accounts were locked for weeks without explanation . multiple users raising money to aid people in gaza have complained about having their accounts frozen . " people are literally trying to escape death ," one new jersey woman told the bbc . " it ' s just mind - blowing that every single corner we turn there ' s a new obstacle ." having raised $ 36 , 000 , she says she missed a window to get her cousin and his family on the list while the company froze her account for several days in early february and asked for more information . she said the request , the first she ' s had in a decade of using the platform , felt " discriminatory ". nearly every person told the bbc they had the same experiences with delays , and multiple said they had to resort to legal threats before getting a response . gofundme , one of the platforms people are using to raise money , told the bbc its priority was " protecting the generosity of donors ". " gofundme has already helped deliver tens of millions of dollars to individuals and organizations supporting those in both israel and gaza , and we will continue to do so as quickly , securely , and safely as possible ," spokesman jalen drummond said . " any suggestion of discrimination is wholly without merit , baseless , and contrary to the values that guide our platform ." jordan , from brooklyn , new york , has hit his fundraising target of $ 50 , 000 and plans to wire it directly to his friend ' s bank in gaza . his friend ' s family must leave to access life - saving medicine . more than 1 . 5 million people are in rafah , most of whom have fled there to escape the fighting , but only a slim minority have connections to people abroad who can help , a reality jordan described as " really dark ". ahmad , who lives in gaza but has a friend in canada fundraising for him , says he has to leave because of chronic knee inflammation , the medication for which is no longer available in gaza . " me and anyone in gaza may die in any second ," he said from the rooftop of a building in rafah , israeli drones buzzing in the background . earlier that day , on 12 february , he sent the bbc a picture of two girls who he said died overnight in a nearby air strike . " i ' m pretty much alive ," he said in the same whatsapp message . " very depressed bro ." the 24 - year - old has been fundraising for weeks but still hasn ' t found a way out of gaza . first , his fundraising account was frozen . as a result , he had to borrow thousands of dollars from his parents - who are resigned to staying in the war - zone - to pay some middlemen whom he trusted to facilitate getting him on the exit list . his plan failed after giving them $ 5 , 000 , and he had to fork out another $ 3 , 000 to resolve the issue . he promised his parents he would pay them back once he got to cairo and could access the money raised by crowdfunding . ahmad is still waiting . on thursday , reached by text message , he said he was in deep pain and feeling very anxious . but he felt hopeful he was on the verge of finally getting out of gaza . it ' s happening , he said , " anytime soon ".