the israeli delegation at last week ' s eurovision song contest faced " an unprecedented display of hatred " from other countries and their entrants , the national broadcaster has claimed . this year ' s event was partly overshadowed by frayed tempers backstage plus protests over israel ' s participation , due to the humanitarian cost of its war on hamas . on thursday , a spokesman for public broadcaster kan issued a statement to bbc news , accusing the other countries of anti - israeli behaviour ." this year , the israeli delegation faced immense pressure and an unprecedented display of hatred , notably from other delegations and artists , publicly and collectively , solely because of the simple fact that we are israelis and that we were there ," it said ." however , throughout the journey , the delegation maintained a dignified and respectful approach towards artists and other delegations , striving to foster unity around music while adhering to the competition ' s rules , unlike some other delegations ." after saturday ' s contest , eurovision organisers said some delegations " didn ’ t respect the spirit of the rules " at the event , without naming any countries . the israeli delegation were criticised by contestants including ireland ' s bambie thug , who had been outspoken about its involvement . other participants , including the dutch team , accused the israeli delegation of filming them and posting clips online without their permission . israel was represented at the event in malmö , sweden , by singer eden golan , who received a mixture of boos and cheers from the audience . she finished fifth . " despite the impossible challenges , eden golan handled the task admirably , earning respect , and the received points from the european audience speaks for itself ," kan ' s statement continued ." we could not be more proud of the result ." after the grand final , bambie thug , who had been outspoken in their pro - palestinian views , accused kan of " inciting violence " against them during its coverage . during the first semi - final , one of the station ' s commentators noted that the performer had " spoken negatively about israel ", and told viewers to " prepare your curses " - thought to be a reference to a lyric in bambie thug ' s song ." the broadcaster has disobeyed the rules and i hope next year they won ’ t be able to compete because of that ," they told reporters after the contest . golan appeared to face criticisms from other contestants during a press conference on thursday . greek singer marina satti was seen yawning and pretending to fall asleep while golan spoke . and when the israeli singer was told she did not have to answer a question about whether her presence " posed a risk ", the netherlands ' joost klein interrupted to ask : " why not ?" two days later , klein was disqualified from the contest over an alleged run - in with a female member of the production crew , who made a complaint to swedish police . lithuania ' s entrant silvester belt , meanwhile , said he regretted taking part in the grand final ." going after that country [ israel ], with the crowd being so intense , was one of the worst things i had to go through ," he wrote on social media . portugal ' s national broadcaster also complained to the european broadcasting union ( ebu ) after there was a delay in posting its performance to youtube after the final . the ebu responded that the delay had been because their contestant , iolanda , had painted designs inspired by the keffiyeh - traditional palestinian scarves used to show support for the country - on her nails . on monday , the ebu issued a separate statement addressing " regret " that some delegations " didn ’ t respect the spirit of the rules and the competition both onsite and during their broadcasts ". it said : " we spoke to a number of delegations during the event regarding various issues that were brought to our attention ." the ebu ’ s governing bodies will , together with the heads of delegations , review the events surrounding the esc in malmö to move forward in a positive way and to ensure the values of the event are respected by everyone ." individual cases will be discussed at the next meeting of the event ’ s governing body , it added .