the un humanitarian aid chief has defended the organisation ' s use of casualty figures in the gaza war in response to sharp criticism by israel . martin griffiths told the bbc the un was " very cautious " in its approach . israel earlier said a recent reduction in un estimates of killed palestinian women and children suggested it had relied on false data from hamas . on 6 may , the un said 69 % of reported fatalities were women and children . on 8 may , it said this figure was 52 %. the un ' s office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs ( ocha ) says incomplete information has led to the revision . the un also says it is now relying on figures from the hamas - run health ministry in gaza , rather than from the hamas - run government media office ( gmo ). speaking to the bbc ' s today programme , mr griffiths said : " gaza is a war zone and the collection of data and statistics , while admirable and necessary , is first of all secondary to actually delivering some aid and , secondly , very difficult in cases of insecurity and violence . " so ... be realistic , please , about what ' s possible in the middle of what we ' re seeing in gaza . i think we are very cautious about these figures and i think it ' s not right to blame the messenger who is trying to get truth out of what is a very , very complicated situation ." at the start of the war last october , the hamas - run health ministry only reported deaths for which details had been registered in hospitals , whereas from november , the gmo included an additional category of deaths recorded in " reliable media reports ". on 6 may , ocha reported 34 , 735 deaths - of which there were more than 9 , 500 women and more than 14 , 500 children , citing the gmo as its source . then two days later , the un released a further report , switching its sourcing to the health ministry . the result of this was that although the overall recorded death toll was almost unchanged ( 34 , 844 ), the number of registered deaths of women ( 4 . 959 ) and children ( 7 , 797 ) as of 30 april had both fallen significantly . this difference was because those individuals with incomplete information were not included in the demographic breakdown . reacting to the change in the official un estimates , israeli foreign minister israel katz called on the un secretary general antonio guterres to step down . " the miraculous resurrection of the dead in gaza . the un had reduced its estimate of women and children killed in gaza by 50 % and claims that it relied on data from the hamas ministry of health ," mr katz wrote in a post on x on monday . " anyone who relies on fake data from a terrorist organisation in order to promote blood libels against israel is antisemitic and supports terrorism . @ antonioguterres , resign !" israel began its military campaign in the gaza strip in the wake of hamas ' s attacks on 7 october , in which 1 , 200 people - mostly civilians - were killed , and 252 others were taken hostage .