un secretary general antonio guterres has made a renewed call for an immediate ceasefire in gaza . " it is time to silence the guns ," he said , speaking from the egyptian side of the rafah crossing with the enclave . he also called on israel to give " total , unfettered " access to humanitarian goods throughout gaza . a un - backed food security assessment this week said 1 . 1 million people in gaza were struggling with catastrophic hunger and starvation . it added that a man - made famine in the north was imminent between now and may . mr guterres , who said he had come to rafah " to spotlight the pain of palestinians in gaza ", was speaking a day after russia and china blocked a us draft resolution put to the un which called for a ceasefire tied to the release of hostages held in gaza . " it ' s time to truly flood gaza with life - saving aid . the choice is clear : either surge or starvation . blocked relief trucks on the egyptian side of border are a moral outrage ," said mr guterres , who also called for the release of israeli hostages . " i want palestinians in gaza to know : you are not alone . people around the world are outraged by the horrors we are all witnessing in real time . palestinians in gaza remain stuck in a non - stop nightmare ," he added . speaking to bbc middle east correspondent hugo bachega , mr guterres again urged israel to lift the obstacles to the delivery of aid . " it ' s obvious that these obstacles are part of the way this war is being conducted in relation to gaza ," he added . israel ' s foreign minister israel katz hit back at guterres on x ( formerly twitter ), saying the un chief " blamed israel for the humanitarian situation in gaza " without condemning hamas fighters who " plunder " aid . the rafah crossing is one of the main points of entry for aid into gaza , where long queues of trucks with aid are waiting for israeli approval to cross . western countries and aid groups have criticised israel over its inspection process , blamed for slowing down the entry of much - needed help . the war in gaza began when hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages , according to israeli officials . more than 32 , 000 palestinians have been killed in israel ' s retaliatory air strikes and its continuing ground offensive , the hamas - run health ministry says . earlier , mr guterres met un humanitarian aid workers in el - arish , the egyptian city closest to gaza , where much of the international relief for the enclave is delivered and stockpiled . he later visited a hospital where injured palestinians are being treated . his trip comes as israel plans to launch a ground operation in rafah . more than half of gaza ' s 2 . 3 million palestinians are sheltering in the southern city , where israel says hamas leaders are hiding and hamas battalions still operate . israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu has defied international criticism of the planned offensive , saying " no international pressure will stop israel " from achieving all of its war aims .