starvation is being used as a weapon of war in gaza , the eu ' s foreign policy chief has claimed . josep borrell described the lack of aid entering the territory as a " manmade " disaster . a spanish ship carrying desperately needed food supplies has left cyprus for gaza , but the un says this cannot replace the delivery of aid by land . israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu has meanwhile vowed to press on with an offensive in southern gaza . the quickest , most effective way to get aid into the territory is by road , but aid agencies say israeli restrictions mean a fraction of what is needed is getting in . attention has instead shifted towards alternative routes including sea and air drops . on tuesday , a un world food programme convoy used a land route to deliver aid to northern gaza for the first time in three weeks . the trucks used an israeli military road running along gaza ' s border fence , jamie mcgoldrick , un aid coordinator for the occupied palestinian territory , told reuters . enough food for 25 , 000 people was delivered to gaza city , with wfp spokesperson shaza moghraby saying they were hoping to " scale up " deliveries , but " need access to be regular and consistent ". israel says it is not to blame for gaza ' s food shortages as it is allowing aid through two crossings in the south . but addressing the un security council in new york on tuesday , mr borrell said the humanitarian crisis in the territory was as a result of a lack of viable land routes . " we are now facing a population fighting for their own survival ," he said . " humanitarian assistance needs to get into gaza , and the european union is working as much as we can in order to make it possible . "[ the humanitarian crisis is ] manmade and when we look for alternative ways of providing support by sea , by air , we have to remind [ ourselves ] that we have to do it because the natural way of providing support through roads is being ... artificially closed . " starvation is being used as a war arm and when we condemned this happening in ukraine , we have to use the same words for what is happening in gaza ." his comments come after the un warned at least 576 , 000 people in gaza - one quarter of the population - were one step away from famine . the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says at least 27 people , many of them children , have died as a result of malnutrition and dehydration at hospitals there in the last two weeks . currently en route to help is the spanish ship the open arms , which set sail from larnaca just before 09 : 00 ( 07 : 00 gmt ) on tuesday towing a barge loaded with 200 tonnes of food supplies . while it is at sea , palestinians working for world central kitchen ( wck ) will continue building a jetty at an undisclosed location on gaza ' s coast , which will be used to offload the aid . a us military ship , general frank s besson , is also sailing towards the middle east carrying equipment to build a temporary pier , which wck says is unrelated to its own project . israel has welcomed the creation of the maritime corridor and said it was facilitating the transfer of aid to gaza while its forces continued to fight hamas . mr netanyahu reiterated on tuesday that israel would press ahead with its military campaign into rafah , gaza ' s most southerly city located near the border with egypt . " we will finish the job in rafah while enabling the civilian population to get out of harm ' s way ," he said in a video address to a conference of the pro - israel aipac organisation in washington on tuesday . meanwhile , the uk ' s foreign secretary , lord cameron , has urged israel to open the major port of ashdod - one of the country ' s three main cargo ports located just south of tel aviv - to seaborne aid deliveries destined for gaza . the war in gaza began when hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . more than 31 , 180 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry there says . weeks of talks involving us , qatari and egyptian mediators have failed to bring about a ceasefire or hostage exchange deal .