" we miss the joyful atmosphere of eid . we do not feel alive at all ." " on eid last year , we played , celebrated and rejoiced together ," recalled tala abu amr , a seven - year - old girl living in a camp for displaced palestinians in rafah , in the southern gaza strip . " but this eid , we miss the taste of happiness ... there are no toys and no friends to play with . they ' re all dead ." tala was one of a number of children who spoke to bbc arabic ' s gaza lifeline radio programme about how they and other members of their families were struggling to celebrate the end of the islamic holy month of ramadan , as the devastating war between israel and hamas continues for a seventh month . eid al - fitr is usually a period of great celebration for muslims after a month of fasting , with families and friends coming together and sharing large meals . it is also common for children to receive either money or gifts from their elders . but this year , many families have been torn apart by the conflict , with more than 33 , 400 people killed in gaza - the majority of them women and children - according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . an estimated 1 . 7 million people - half of them children - have also been forced to flee their homes and 1 . 1 million are facing catastrophic hunger , having exhausted their food supplies and coping capacities , the un says . the war has cast such a pall over gaza that " we are not fine " has become the official eid al - fitr greeting among residents and on social media platforms . on the eve of the festival , streets across the territory would usually be filled with the sounds of people chanting " takbirs ", expressing their gratitude to god , while markets would be bustling with shoppers buying celebratory food , including sweets filled with dates and various types of chocolates . this year , however , the streets were filled only with pain and sadness . " we used to stay up all night , purchase sweets and new clothes for the children , and pray at the grand mosque . unfortunately , this year we are living in a tent without the basic necessities of life ," mohammed al - barbari , a 47 - year - old father of six from gaza city who has fled to rafah , told the bbc . sarah amer , an 11 - year - old girl from gaza city ' s shejaiya neighbourhood , said she would usually go to the amusement park during the festival or be invited to parties by her aunts and cousins . " this is a holiday of war . how can we rejoice and celebrate when there are people being killed , prisoners , and wounded ?" she asked . " my friends ... are missing now and i do not know where they are ," she added . " i miss those moments when i would meet and play with them , celebrate and chat and sing together ." " i asked my mum to get us dolls to play with . my mum responded by saying : ' a lot of children like you lost their parents , they have nothing , they lost everything . let ' s be considerate of them .'" khalil abu hassanein , a 13 - year - old boy from the sheikh radwan area of gaza city who is sheltering at a hospital north of rafah , said : " we used to celebrate eid with our loved ones . but now all our loved ones have died and there are no new clothes to buy , no cookies to eat and no drinks to have ." " this eid has no taste because of the bodies of people ... that we see ." fedaa murjan , who works for the independent palestinian centre for human rights , is unable to celebrate eid al - fitr because she is mourning her eight - year - old daughter , habiba . she said habiba was killed in an israeli strike on their home in gaza city on 13 october - only six days after the war was triggered by hamas ' s attacks on southern israel , in which about 1 , 200 people - mostly civilians - were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . " for eid , we used to gather , we used to wear the best clothes we had . we used to have the best chocolate . they were days of happiness and joy for everybody in gaza . but unfortunately , this eid is very different from every other eid before ," she told the bbc from rafah . " this eid , [ i ' m ] not the fedaa murjan who used to be in every eid . i ' m a defeated , sad mother who has been suffering for six months because of the loss of my only daughter ." at al - aqsa martyrs hospital in the central town of deir al - balah , nidal abdeh was filmed as he cradled the body of his young son , who he said had been killed in an israeli air strike along with his wife and their two other children . " today is the first day of eid . our children have the right to have a happy life , a decent life ," nidal told reuters news agency . "[ israel ' s ] planes , its barbarism and arrogance , killed our children ." the hospital ' s mortuary was also filled with the shrouded bodies of 14 people , who health officials said were killed in a strike on nuseirat refugee camp . there was no immediate comment from the israeli military . however , it put out a statement on wednesday that said its forces were " continuing to operate in the central gaza strip and killed a number of terrorists over the past day ". it added that aircraft had " struck dozens of terror targets " across gaza . one way that many palestinians in gaza were able to mark eid al - fitr was to attend prayer services on wednesday morning . in rafah , where a million people are sheltering , dozens gathered on a street outside the ruins of al - farouk mosque , which was destroyed in february . meanwhile , haroun al - medallal told gaza lifeline that some of the women at his camp in the city had made cookies in an attempt " to put a smile on the faces " of the orphaned children there . " despite the pain , destruction , displacement and continuous shelling by the israeli army , we are a life - loving people ," he said . mohammed abu amer said he was praying for a ceasefire , as hamas considers a proposal from mediators in cairo for a six - week pause in the fighting that would reportedly include the release of 40 of the hostages it is still holding . " we hope that joy prevails during the days of eid , the children rejoice , and this ordeal and war ends ," he added . several children in rafah also said they were trying to stay positive . " despite the war and the fear , i am determined to enjoy eid like other children in the world ," said nabeel samy al - saroura , 10 . " we will celebrate and rejoice ."