the eu has called on international donors to resume funding to gaza ' s largest un agency . it comes after a review found that israel had not provided evidence for its claim that thousands of unrwa staff were members of terror groups . several nations halted funding to the agency after allegations that some employees took part in the hamas attacks on israel . the us says it will not restart its aid until unrwa makes " real progress ". unrwa , which provides healthcare , education and humanitarian aid to palestinians , employs 13 , 000 people in gaza . eu humanitarian chief janez lenarcic welcomed monday ' s report for " underlining the agency ' s significant number of compliance systems in place as well as recommendations for their further upgrade ". he called on donor nations to support unrwa , describing it as " the palestinian refugees ' lifeline ". this was echoed by norway ' s foreign minister espen barth eide , who hailed countries including australia , canada , finland , germany , iceland , japan and sweden for already resuming their funding . the us , uk , italy , netherlands , austria and lithuania have not yet done so . " in terms of our funding of unrwa , that is still suspended ," white house security spokesman john kirby said on tuesday . " we ' re gonna have to see real progress here before that gets changed ." the deputy spokesman of the us state department , vedant patel , said the government was looking closely at the report , adding " we of course continue to support unrwa ' s important work , and it must continue ". israel has accused more than 2 , 135 of the agency ' s staff of being members of hamas or palestinian islamic jihad - proscribed terror organisations in israel , the uk , us and other countries . but the un ' s independent review , led by a former french foreign minister , said israel was yet to provide " supporting evidence " for this claim . while the report acknowledged unrwa ' s " robust framework ", it said it needed to do more to improve its neutrality , staff vetting and transparency . the agency insists it carries out detailed reference checks on all employees , and shares staff lists with israel . israeli authorities suggest the report ignores the severity of the problem , and claim unrwa has systematic links to hamas . the eu ' s plea came as the us humanitarian envoy to gaza , david satterfield , repeated warnings that the risk of famine throughout the palestinian territory - especially in the north - was very high . the catastrophic situation has been caused by the siege israel imposed after the 7 october attacks . around 500 trucks of aid were previously entering gaza each day , but the figure collapsed following the start of the war . israel has also been accused of slowing deliveries by subjecting trucks to complex and arbitrary checks , and last month the un ' s top court ordered it to enable the unhindered flow of aid into gaza . israel has pledged to gradually increase aid back to pre - war levels , and unrwa figures show that on monday 316 trucks entered gaza , the highest number since the war began . the average over the previous seven days , however , was 190 . mr satterfield said israel needed to do everything possible to stop a famine and called on more to be done to deliver aid to those in need . so far , more than 34 , 000 palestinians - mostly women and children - have been killed during israel ' s military campaign in gaza , according to the hamas - run health ministry . a separate un investigation is looking at israeli allegations that 12 unrwa staff took part in the 7 october attacks on israel , which saw around 1 , 200 people killed and about 250 taken hostage . unrwa fired 10 of the 12 accused staff members who were still alive in the wake of the allegations .