the first minister has condemned iran ' s attack on israel , labelling it an " extremely worrying development ." humza yousaf said that all parties in the middle east should abide by un security council resolutions and implement an immediate ceasefire . he added that " violence begets violence " and that civilians in the region had already " paid far too high a price ". the first minister stood by his calls to end uk arms sales to israel . iran launched more than 300 drones and missiles towards israel , the country ' s military said . other projectiles were fired from iran , iraq , syria and yemen . tehran ' s attack is a retaliation for an israeli strike that killed iranian military commanders in damascus earlier this month . but it also comes after months of warfare between israel and hamas after the group attacked israel on 7 october . mr yousaf has repeatedly called for a ceasefire in the region and has criticised israel ' s response to hamas ' s attacks on 7 october , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . israel ' s military launched an air and ground campaign in the gaza strip . more than 30 , 000 palestinians have been killed in that campaign , according to the hamas - run health ministry . speaking on sunday morning , mr yousaf said the " vast majority " of those killed in the conflict in gaza were innocent women and children . he said that israel had an advanced military and could defend itself without uk - made arms . mr yousaf urged against escalation in the region . " it ' s not men in their suits in governments that pay the price for that escalation , it is innocent civilians ." he said . the uk government has confirmed that raf fighter jets took part in the defence of israel , shooting down a number of drones fired from iran . additional raf jets were deployed over iraq and syria and not israel , the ministry of defence ( mod ) said . mr yousaf said he has requested a briefing on the situation from the uk government but had not yet received one . he added that he would have " concerns " about uk military involvement in the middle east . " our track record in that region is not a particularly good one ," he said . mr yousaf said that he did not want to see " ripples " of conflict in the middle east being felt in communities in scotland but conceded that his calls for a ceasefire in the region have " fallen on deaf ears ". the first minister ' s in - laws were trapped in gaza for almost a month at the start of the conflict , eventually making it out of gaza and into egypt via the rafah crossing .