israel ' s military says it has recovered the body of a man taken hostage and held in gaza , in an overnight operation in khan younis . elad katzir was taken from kibbutz nir oz during the hamas attacks on southern israel on 7 october . his body has been brought back to israel , the israel defense forces ( idf ) and israeli security agency ( isa ) said . he was identified by medical officials , and his family has been informed . the idf and isa said in a joint statement : " the body of the abductee elad katzir , who according to intelligence was murdered in captivity by the islamic jihad terrorist organisation , was rescued overnight from khan yunis and returned to israeli territory ." they said his remains were located using " precise " intelligence . he was buried in the khan younis refugee camp , at a site used by " terror operatives ", a times of israel report said . information about the grave was obtained about a week ago and confirmed on friday evening . hours later his body was exhumed and returned to israel , the report added . mr katzir , 47 , was abducted from nir oz with his mother hanna , 77 . she was released along with 104 other hostages during a six - day ceasefire at the end of november . his father , avraham , was murdered in the kibbutz , the idf and isa said . mr katzir ' s sister , carmit palty katzir , blamed israeli authorities for her brother ' s death in a post on social media , saying he would have returned alive had they agreed a new truce deal . " our leadership is cowardly and driven by political consideration , which is why this deal has not happened yet ," she wrote on facebook . " prime minister , war cabinet , and coalition members : look at yourself in the mirror and say if your hands didn ' t spill blood ." in january , palestinian militant group islamic jihad published a video purporting to show mr katzir speaking from captivity in gaza . prisoners of war and hostages are protected under international humanitarian law , and so the bbc does not broadcast the full details of material which may have been filmed under duress . in the video , mr katzir said he had been close to dying more than once , and called on the israeli government to stop the war and bring him and other hostages home . he also repeatedly said he loved and missed his family . israeli media said that according to idf estimates mr katzir was murdered by his captors in mid - january , soon after the video was published . " our mission is to locate and return the abductees home ," the idf and isa said on saturday . they said they are " working in full coordination with the relevant national and security bodies and will continue until the task is complete ". hamas has said it will send a delegation to egypt on sunday for a new round of ceasefire talks . israel said it was undecided on whether to attend , adding that it would be " more political theatre than actual progress ", reuters news agency quoted an israeli official as saying . the 7 october hamas attacks killed about 1 , 200 people , most of them civilians . some 33 , 137 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says - many of them women and children . this includes at least 46 deaths over the past 24 hours , a ministry statement said . according to israel , 253 israelis and foreigners were taken during the attacks . about 129 hostages remain unaccounted for after being kidnapped - at least 34 of them are presumed dead . israel gives a slightly higher official figure because it includes four people taken hostage in 2014 and 2015 . two of these are believed to have died .