a ship carrying desperately needed humanitarian aid is expected to set sail this weekend , bound for gaza . the spanish vessel , open arms , is scheduled to depart from cyprus - the closest eu country to gaza - and hopes to use a newly opened shipping route . with no functioning port and shallow waters , it is still unclear where the ship will dock when it reaches gaza . the un says a quarter of the strip ' s population is on the brink of famine and children are starving to death . the ship , expected to reach gaza in the next few days , belongs to the spanish charity of the same name , open arms . it docked three weeks ago in larnaca and will tow a barge loaded with items provided by us charity world central kitchen , open arms founder oscar camps told the associated press . open arms said israeli authorities have started inspecting the cargo of " 200 tonnes of basic foodstuffs , rice and flour , cans of tuna ". laura lanuza told afp news agency the vessel could embark " today or tomorrow " depending on all the " authorisations and permits , and when we get them ". the ship will take around two to three days to reach an undisclosed location off the coast of gaza , mr camps said . he added that the final mile of the journey - which is about 216 nautical miles in total - would be " the most complicated operation ", but added that he was not " concerned at all about security ". at the destination point , a team from the world central kitchen has been building a pier to receive the aid , he said . the group has 60 kitchens throughout gaza , where it will be able to distribute the food . " what initially appeared as an insurmountable challenge is now on the verge of realization ," read a post on open arms ' x account . " our tugboat stands prepared to embark at a moment ' s notice , laden with tons of food , water , and vital supplies for palestinian civilians ." world central kitchen said it had been preparing for the aid trip for weeks , waiting for the shipping route to open . the maritime corridor was announced by european commission chief ursula von der leyen on friday , while she was in cyprus . that came a day after president joe biden announced that the us plans to build a temporary floating port to gaza ' s shoreline . the pentagon later said it would take up to 60 days to complete and need about 1 , 000 troops to build - none of whom would go ashore . the port will be able to receive large ships carrying food , water , medicine and temporary shelters , us officials said . initial shipments will arrive via cyprus , where israeli security inspections will take place . a pentagon spokesman said the pier could help to deliver up to 2 million meals every day . it is unclear whether , or how , the us ' temporary pier and the eu ' s sea corridor will work together , as neither mr biden nor ms von der leyen mentioned the other ' s plans . on saturday afternoon , the us said it dropped 41 , 400 " meal equivalents " and 23 , 000 bottles of water into northern gaza as it said more aerial deliveries were planned . getting aid into the gaza strip has been increasingly difficult and dangerous - the world food programme paused its deliveries to northern gaza last month , after its convoys endured " complete chaos and violence ", the organisation said . with land deliveries near impossible , several nations have turned to air drops , but the situation in gaza is so dire , the drops are an inefficient way of getting supplies to people . on friday there were reports that five people had been killed by a falling aid package , when its parachute failed to open properly . israel ' s military launched an air and ground campaign in the gaza strip after hamas ' s attacks on israel on 7 october , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 30 , 800 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . the conflict has created a growing humanitarian crisis , and the un has warned that famine in gaza is " almost inevitable ". at least 576 , 000 people across the gaza strip - one quarter of the population - are facing catastrophic levels of food insecurity and one in six children under the age of two in the north are suffering from acute malnutrition , a senior un aid official warned last week . save the children welcomed the recent international efforts to provide more aid into gaza , but said children there " cannot wait " for the time it may take to build a temporary port to eat . " they are already dying from malnutrition and saving their lives is a matter of hours or days - not weeks ," the charity said in a statement . doctors without borders said the us plan for a temporary pier was a " glaring distraction from the real problem ", urging israel to facilitate the flow of supplies . additional reporting by tiffany wertheimer