hamas ' s political leader ismail haniyeh has confirmed that three of his sons and four of his grandchildren were killed in an air strike in gaza . hamas - linked media said the car his sons were travelling in was hit in al - shati camp near gaza city . haniyeh said that the incident would not change hamas ' s demands in talks aimed at reaching a ceasefire deal . israel ' s military said the sons were members of hamas ' s military wing - a claim denied by haniyeh . the group was reportedly on its way to a family celebration to mark the first day of the muslim holiday of eid . haniyeh told the broadcaster al jazeera that three sons - hazem , amir , and muhammad - had remained in gaza during the war . a statement from hamas later said four of haniyeh ' s grandchildren - mona , amal , khaled and razan - were among those killed in what they called the " treacherous and cowardly " strike . haniyeh said he heard the news as he was visiting wounded palestinians who had been taken for treatment to the qatari capital , doha , which is where the hamas leader lives . " the enemy will be delusional if it thinks that targeting my sons , at the climax of the [ ceasefire ] negotiations and before the movement sends its response , will push hamas to change its position ," he told al jazeera . in comments reported on hamas ' s telegram channel , he thanked god for the " honour " bestowed on him by what he called the " martyrdom of his children and grandchildren ". israel ' s military said it had " eliminated three hamas military wing operatives in the central gaza strip ", adding that they were the sons of ismail haniyeh . the statement did not mention the reported deaths of haniyeh ' s grandchildren . speaking to reuters on thursday , haniyeh denied that his sons were hamas fighters . as international pressure to reach a ceasefire deal grows , us president joe biden has sent the head of the cia , william burns , for the latest round of talks in cairo . the latest proposal , which hamas says it is analysing , reportedly includes the release of 40 israeli hostages being held in gaza in return for 900 palestinians from israeli jails . haniyeh is widely considered hamas ' s overall leader and has been a prominent member of the movement since 1980 . he was elected head of hamas ' s political bureau in 2017 and the us department of state designated him a terrorist in 2018 . these are not the first members of haniyeh ' s family to have been killed in the war . another son was reportedly killed in february , while his brother and nephew were killed in october , followed by a grandson in november . hamas - led gunmen attacked israel on 7 october , killing 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostage . israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 000 gazans , the majority of them civilians , have been killed during israel ' s offensive in gaza since the october attack , the hamas - run health ministry says .