eight israeli soldiers were killed in a blast in southern gaza on saturday , israel ’ s military said , the deadliest incident for the army in the war since january . the soldiers were in an armoured vehicle that was hit by a major explosion that , according to a preliminary investigation , detonated explosive “ engineering material ”, the army said . the incident happened during an operation in the tal al - sultan neighbourhood of rafah , which has been a key target for israeli forces in recent weeks . earlier , the armed wing of hamas said it had fired a rocket towards an armoured vehicle after setting up an ambush . the soldiers were returning from an overnight operation in rafah ' s tal al - sultan neighbourhood at around 05 : 15 local time ( 03 : 15 bst ) when their armoured vehicle is understood to have exploded . israeli media reported that israeli forces had killed 50 fighters in that operation , and gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry said 30 palestinians have been killed in the past day . in a statement on x , the israeli defense forces ( idf ) identified 23 - year - old captain wassem mahmoud as among those killed and said the names of the other soldiers would be released once the families have been notified . prime minister benjamin netanyahu said israel had paid " a heart - rending price in our just war in defense of our homeland ", but said his country would continue fighting this war " to ensure our existence and our future ". defence minister yoav gallant also expressed his sorrow , saying " the pain that comes with such loss is immense ". israeli ground troops are continuing to operate in rafah to oust hamas from what it calls its “ last major stronghold ”. aid agencies have warned of a dire humanitarian situation in rafah , where the un says around one million palestinians are taking refuge . on wednesday , world health organization director - general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus said a significant proportion of gaza ' s population was facing " catastrophic hunger and famine - like conditions ". several world leaders , including us president joe biden , have urged israel not to conduct a full scale assault on rafah . the hamas - run health ministry says more than 37 , 000 palestinians have been killed since the start of the war , and many hundreds of thousands more have been injured or displaced . the war began after hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 251 others back to gaza as hostages .