iran ' s late president , ebrahim raisi , has been buried in his home city of mashhad , four days after he was killed in a helicopter crash . the 63 - year - old hard - line cleric was laid to rest in the holy shrine of imam reza , a revered figure in shia islam . tv pictures showed large crowds gathered in one of the north - eastern city ’ s main streets ahead of the ceremony . seven other people died in sunday ' s crash during bad weather in iran ' s mountainous north - west . they include raisi ’ s foreign minister , hossein amir - abdollahian , 60 , who was buried on thursday at the shah abdol - azim shrine in rey , a southern suburb of the capital tehran . acting president mohammad mokhber , who will serve until an election is held on 28 june , was present there to make preparations for the burial . ebrahim raisi ’ s burial at the gold - domed imam reza shrine - a memorial to the eighth shia imam - which is considered the holiest in iran , came after three days of ceremonies elsewhere . state media described thursday ' s event as “ historic ”, while mashhad ’ s mayor was quoted as saying that “ three million mourners ” had attended - a figure almost equal to the city ’ s entire population . earlier , thousands also turned out to watch his coffin being driven through the eastern city of birjand , where raisi had been the representative to the assembly of experts . on wednesday , leaders and other dignitaries from the country ’ s allies and neighbours attended a commemorative event in tehran . also present were representatives of the so - called “ axis of resistance ”, a loose network of armed groups which receive iranian weapons , training and funds . they included the political leader of the iran - backed palestinian armed group hamas , ismail haniyeh , the deputy secretary - general of lebanon ’ s hezbollah movement , naim qassem , the spokesman of yemen ' s houthis , mohammed abdulsalam , and the head of iraq ' s paramilitary popular mobilisation forces , faleh al - fayad . senior western officials were noticeably absent from the ceremony , reflecting their countries ’ strained relations with iran . iran ’ s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , also led prayers for those killed ."[ the president ’ s death ] was a difficult issue for us , but the iranian nation will turn this bitter incident into an opportunity ,” he told the speaker of lebanon ’ s parliament , nabih berri . raisi was close to the 85 - year - old supreme leader , who is the ultimate authority in the islamic republic , and was widely seen as a potential successor . tens of thousands of people have taken part in the funeral processions in recent days , which the government and state media have portrayed as demonstrations of national unity ." how do i find someone like him ? i ' m really worried about that ," mohsen , a cleric from qom , told afp news agency at wednesday ’ s funeral procession in tehran . " as far as i know , we don ' t have anyone of his stature ." civil servant ali mousavi - nejad , said the presence of so many people “ sends a message to the enemies of the revolution ”. however , many more people have stayed at home , with some even celebrating the president ’ s death despite prosecutors warning that they could face prosecution . millions despised raisi for overseeing the deadly crackdown on the “ woman , life , freedom ” protests that erupted in 2022 , a year after he took office . he also faced calls for an international investigation into his alleged role on the " death committee " which ordered the mass executions of political prisoners in the 1980s . his time as president will also be remembered for a deepening economic hardship and an unprecedented direct military confrontation with israel last month , which raised fears of a regional war . a female student , who took part in the protests two years ago , told the bbc : “ people are so happy . most of them are wearing white or bright colours and smiling at each other .”“ the image they keep showing to the world [ is ] that we ’ re all sad , that we loved him . but it isn ’ t true .” she added : “ today , when i attended my classes , there was a big banner of his face in the university ’ s main hallway . and the students would show the middle finger to his picture .” the student also said the streets of tehran were " full of security patrols " to deter protests or celebrations . hadi ghaemi , the director of the us - based center for human rights in iran ( chri ) advocacy group , said raisi ’ s death should not be exploited to further crack down on civil society .“ raisi was a pillar of a system that jails , tortures , and kills people for daring to criticize state policies ,” he said . “ his death has enabled him to escape being held accountable for his many crimes and the state ’ s atrocities committed under his rule .” iranian authorities say they are still investigating what caused the helicopter crash in which he died . officials have said the aircraft - a decades - old , us - made bell 212 - hit a mountainside as it flew to the north - western city of tabriz in fog and heavy rain . raisi was travelling with amir - abdollahian , the governor of east azerbaijan province , malek rahmati , and tabriz ’ s friday prayer leader , ayatollah mohammad ali al - e hashem , as well as the head of the presidential security team and the helicopter ’ s three crew following the inauguration of two dams on the border with azerbaijan .