the mother of an israeli - american man being held in gaza has told the bbc that israel and hamas must urgently agree a new ceasefire and hostage release deal . rachel goldberg - polin ' s son hersh , who turned 23 four days before he was kidnapped from the nova festival on 7 october , was seen in captivity in a new video released last week . she described how she felt when she first watched it . " as soon as i heard his voice i started to cry , because i haven ' t heard his voice in half a year . " to see him moving , and to see that he is clearly medically compromised , and that he ' s fragile . his father jon and i were both just crying , and i was holding my heart ." " i don ' t even know what i was saying . i was just making noises and crying , and jon was crying ". hersh goldberg - polin was at the nova music festival in a forested area close to the gaza strip when hamas - led gunmen stormed israel ' s border fence , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages , according to israeli tallies . more than 360 of those killed were attending the festival event . hersh managed to get several kilometres away from the festival site in a car , before seeking refuge in a roadside bomb shelter with several dozen others . but outside , hamas gunmen gathered and began throwing in grenades . before wednesday , the last time he had been seen alive was in a hamas video that showed him being loaded on to a pick - up truck , with part of his left arm missing . in the new video , posted to hamas ' s telegram account , hersh lifts his arm to the camera to show a healed stump where his hand should be . he criticises israel ' s military campaign in gaza before speaking directly to his parents and two sisters , urging them to keep campaigning for his release . " we ' re clearly very concerned about the injury ," mrs goldberg - polin told me . " we ' ve had several surgeons who have seen the video that say he needs another surgery immediately . if he was treated , it was an emergency treatment . he needs a second surgery at least ." " he is considered in a fragile and compromised medical state , and so we ' re concerned about that ." as a 23 - year - old man , hersh would not be expected to be included in the next batch of hostages whose release is being discussed , which includes woman and the elderly . but those with medical conditions also fall into the category to be freed , and so the family hope that he will be included - although they have not had any confirmation . mrs goldberg - polin says she is scheduled to meet the us secretary of state , antony blinken , on his latest visit to israel , which it is hoped will give further impetus to the negotiations . she had a clear message for all of the parties involved . " i think that everyone here has leverage . everyone is using their leverage . but are they using it to the maximum ? the answer is clearly no . because we still have 133 people there in gaza . " i am hopeful and optimistic . i ' m really praying that all the parties , everyone decides that they ' re going to be courageous , be daring , and put an end to all the suffering in this region ". it is expected that hamas will respond to the latest israeli proposal in the next 24 hours . the hope is that it can provide a foundation to negotiate a concrete deal , and not be rejected outright . the details are yet to be officially confirmed but are believed to involve the release of 33 hostages during a five to six week ceasefire . an as - yet - unspecified number of palestinian prisoners would be released from israeli jails . there is also believed to be a commitment to discuss a future end point for the war . but even as those discussions continue , israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu says he is planning a ground offensive in rafah regardless of the outcome . around 1 . 4 million displaced palestinians are sheltering there after fleeing their homes during the heavy fighting in northern and central parts of gaza . more than 34 , 500 people have been killed in gaza since 7 october , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . israel has been conducting a military campaign to destroy hamas and free the hostages . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 hostages - most of them women and children - in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails .