a un human rights expert says she believes israel has committed " acts of genocide " in gaza . francesca albanese , the un special rapporteur on human rights in the occupied palestinian territories , presented her report to un member states in geneva on tuesday . but israel has already dismissed her findings . this comes amid growing international pressure on israel to stop the war or to do much more to protect civilians . ms albanese concluded that " there are reasonable grounds to believe that the threshold indicating the commission of the crime of genocide against palestinians as a group in gaza has been met ". before ms albanese even got to her feet , her findings had been dismissed by israel , whose ambassador described it as " an outrageous distortion of the genocide convention ". israel has for years been angered by the un human rights council ' s agenda , which permanently devotes an entire section - item 7 - to scrutiny of the situation in " palestine and the other occupied arab territories ". the agenda item was approved not by the un itself , but by un member states , decades ago , and has never expired . no other country in the world has permanent scrutiny like this , and israel views it as discriminatory , and aimed at delegitimising israel . it refuses to attend the council when item 7 is under discussion . but many countries , in particular those in the middle east , argue that the situation - in the absence of self - determination for palestinians through a two - state solution - requires ongoing investigation , and now that there is another conflict , all the more so . since hamas ' s brutal attack on israel on 7 october , ms albanese has called for the release of the hostages , and does so again in this report . in it she " firmly condemns the crimes committed by hamas and other palestinian armed groups in israel on 7 october ". but she has also been outspoken in her criticism of israel ' s conduct of the war in gaza . that ' s why her report has been awaited with both impatience , and trepidation . ms albanese ' s choice of a title for it : ' anatomy of a genocide ' was not exactly diplomatic . many member states , especially those traditionally supportive of israel , will be uncomfortable . but un special rapporteurs , while tasked by the un to examine and advise on specific situations , are independent of it . genocide is a specific legal term , and ms albanese ' s report suggests some of the legal criteria have been fulfilled . she cites what she says appears to be israel ' s intention to destroy palestinians as a group " in whole or in part ", a key clause in the convention against genocide . she mentions in particular three elements which point to possible genocide : the death toll in gaza , currently well over 32 , 000 according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry , the bombing of densely populated areas , and the restrictions on aid supplies ( which , the un says , have brought gaza to the brink of famine ), are all proof , the report claims , of intent to destroy the group . basel alsourani , of the palestinian centre for human rights , welcomed the report . he suggested international law had been violated by all sides in this conflict , but argued that genocide was such a serious crime the international community could not ignore it . " allowing genocide to happen doesn ' t only affect palestinians …, it affects all human beings around the world ," he said . " if now israel is committing genocide without accountability , tomorrow we don ' t know which country will claim that genocide has been committed by israel , and [ therefore ] i can commit genocide with no accountability ." tala nasir , a palestinian human rights lawyer who also travelled to geneva to hear the report , hoped it would draw more attention to the fate of what she said were thousands of people detained by israel since 7 october . " they have arrested more than 7 , 700 palestinians ," she said . " eighty per cent of them are being held under administrative detention which means they are not presenting any charges against them ." their families , she pointed out , had no contact with them , and no idea where they were . not surprisingly , israeli diplomats are angry . its ambassador to the un in geneva , meirav eilon shahar , described the report as " an obscene inversion of reality ", and accused ms albanese of questioning israel ' s right to exist . many israelis , too , are likely to be shocked . and the suggestion of genocide , towards a state which was founded as a direct result of nazi germany ' s genocide of jews , will cause deep offence . in the wake of 7 october attack , and the fact that so many israeli families are still waiting for news of loved ones taken hostage , hearing such outspoken condemnation is hard . noam peri , whose father chaim was taken hostage , also travelled to geneva . her focus , naturally , is that her father not be forgotten . " my father was kidnapped from his own home ," she said . " he ' s an 80 - year - old person that was sitting in his home with my mother , and he was brutally taken from there , and has essentially disappeared since . he has no communication , with no - one in the world ." but , as this week ' s vote for an immediate ceasefire at the un security council shows , member states are growing impatient with israel ' s conduct of the war . too many well - respected un aid agencies have warned that nowhere in gaza is safe , that families are now eating animal feed , or grass , that amputations are being performed on children without anaesthetic . they all say israel is restricting vital aid supplies , and governments have begun to doubt israel ' s claim that the un is to blame for the delays . many will not like francesca albanese ' s choice of words , but the content of her report will add to the pressure on israel to change its strategy .