spiralling tensions and cross - border strikes which have killed more than 70 civilians in lebanon have turned parts of the south into ghost towns . residents have fled , leaving their homes at risk of destruction . the bbc went on patrol with the un ' s peacekeeping force there to see what has happened . the huge crater containing a mangled mattress buried under a pile of dust and stone is all that ' s left of the building that stood on this spot just days ago . " we call it ' the pool '," said a lebanese army officer at yarine - a border town on the front line of the one of the region ' s most dangerous conflict zones . yarine is just 1km ( 0 . 6 miles ) from the un - designated blue line - the highly volatile , unofficial boundary between israel and lebanon . in every town near the line , there are similar sights : buildings levelled or vanished into craters ; next to them , buildings which have been damaged , then rows of houses intact - followed by more craters . in alma el shaab , about 4km west of yarine , stand the remains of what appears to have been a gated villa with parked cars - destroyed , apart from a fence now surrounding a pile of rubble . the windows of houses nearby were all smashed from the force of the explosions . " we are paying the price of all of this ," lamented the 75 - year - old owner of the villa , nadim sayyah . mr sayyah said he used to keep the lights on all the time in the hope that might spare the family home from being hit . " everything is lost , the house , the belongings , and the cars . but i will return as soon as i can , even if i were to live in a tent there ." a soldier there pointed out that " one missile did all of this ". israel has been carrying out strikes on southern lebanon almost daily since hezbollah - the powerful lebanese shia islamist group - fired rockets at israel on 8 october in support of hamas in gaza , triggering an escalating series of attacks and counter - attacks . because of the danger - three reporters ( one from reuters and two from al mayadeen ) have been killed in strikes in south lebanon which their news organisations and lebanon have blamed on israel - the bbc team visited the border area with the un peacekeeping force , unifil . israel has said it does not target journalists . unifil has been in south lebanon since israel ' s pullback and eventual withdrawal following its invasion of 1978 . in a not - too - distant past , unifil proudly emphasised that it had overseen the longest period of calm between lebanon and israel - stretching to 16 years since the last war between hezbollah and israel in 2006 . as the bbc team was filming , what seemed to be israeli drones could be heard in the sky . moments later , plumes of thick black smoke appeared in the distance , an apparent israeli strike . it was not possible to know what had been hit . the israeli army says it targets hezbollah fighters and infrastructure and retaliates to attacks on israeli army bases in northern israel . but some lebanese officials , including the caretaker prime minster and speaker of parliament , have accused it of implementing scorched earth tactics to make the whole area uninhabitable . right now , there is no sign of life in many southern villages . people have fled , leaving towns deserted . about 90 , 000 lebanese have become displaced , according to the international organization for migration ( iom ). on the israeli side , about 80 , 000 people have been evacuated . israel ' s defence minister has said israelis from northern communities cannot expect to return home until hezbollah has been driven back from the border . the lebanese town of aita el shaab - just 700m ( 2 , 300ft ) from israel - has suffered the heaviest damage so far . on the day of our visit , israel said it launched 40 strikes on the town . " we know that our house has been badly damaged , but it is still standing - as far as we know ," said hussein jawad , who comes from aita el shaab . hussein , a construction worker , left his house with his seven children and his wife in october . they are now staying in an apartment on the outskirts of beirut . " we didn ' t expect it all to last that long . we thought it would just be a couple of days ," his wife maryam said . " we know it will still take a while ." we showed hussein a video of his town that we filmed just months ago . " this house is now destroyed , that one doesn ' t exist any more , this row of shops here is now totally flattened ," he pointed out . he has ventured back to his town once - weeks ago when he attended a funeral . he gets updates about his house every once in a while , from the civil defence staff there or from the mayor who has not left the town . according to the us - based monitoring group armed conflict location & event data project ( acled ), there have been more than 5 , 400 cross - border attacks between israel and hezbollah since october . it says 80 % of those were carried out by israel . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said last month that it had hit over 4 , 300 " hezbollah targets ". it has also said that as of 2 april , approximately 3 , 100 rockets had been fired at israel from lebanese territory . israel says nine civilians have been killed by rocket - fire from lebanon . hussein does not expect to be able to move back home any time soon . " it could be that what we are witnessing is just the beginning of it ," he says . back on the road with the italian contingent on unifil , its commander , colonel alberto salvador , insists that the peacekeeping forces ' role is still very important , despite the continuing violence . " we see many people are tired of the situation on this side of the border and on the other side as well . i think it ' s time for peace ," he says . " the next challenge for the unifil is to help and support the local population in returning to their homes ." but as fighting between israel and hezbollah intensifies , the prospect of that happening remains dim .