news in the middle east moves fast . one moment it is all about unprecedented missile and drone attacks between iran and israel . the next the headlines return to the fighting and suffering in gaza . but policymakers , analysts and military leaders are still absorbing the extraordinary exchange of fire just days ago between two old adversaries , one that arguably came a small technological failure away from triggering a devastating international conflict . it is worth considering how close they came to the edge and how deep the abyss that lay before them . this was the first time iran and israel had attacked each other directly . some analysts say the iranian attack was the largest combined missile and drone assault ever - bigger than anything russia has levelled against ukraine . it was certainly the first external bombardment of israel since saddam hussein ' s scud missiles in 1991 . most of the 300 - plus iranian drones and missiles were shot down or failed en route . but i watched from our office in jerusalem as the night sky was lit up by israeli air defences trying to bring down the ballistic missiles flying overhead . all it would have taken is for one gps guidance system to fail for a missile to land in an urban area at huge civilian cost . " i don ' t think people realise how close we were that weekend ," one senior western security official told me . " it could have been a very different story ." yet some in the west think positives can be drawn from the attack on 13 april and israel ' s limited retaliation last week . they argue it was a huge intelligence success to predict the iranian strike , that the defence of israel was an outstanding example of allied military cooperation , and that both iran and israel learned how to climb down the escalatory ladder . let ' s take the intelligence operation first . i am told the us learned about iran ' s plans on the wednesday morning before the attack on saturday evening . and crucially , they discovered the scale of iran ' s ambition . " we got wind that iran ' s response would be at the top end of expectations ," said one high - level western source . " and that was a bit of a shock . but it helped galvanise the international response ." crucially , it helped the us persuade some countries in the gulf to join in israel ' s defence , including jordan and saudi arabia . their fear - once they were aware of the scale of iran ' s plans - was the risk of an escalatory regional war if israel had no choice but to retaliate hard . so a mixture of good intelligence gathering and private iranian signalling ( which the us denies took place ) gave israel and its allies time to prepare . the roles played by jordan and saudi arabia are still not fully clear . jordan has admitted shooting down iranian drones in self - defence to protect its sovereignty . it is understood jordan also allowed israeli warplanes some access to its airspace . the saudis are thought to have provided information to the us and kept an eye on any threat from iranian - backed armed groups in yemen . the key point is it worked . the us , british , french , jordanian and saudi militaries showed they could operate together on collective air defence . " it was an extraordinarily successful tactical operation ," said the security source . " the intelligence cued it up , we had sight of the whole area and we worked together . no other group of nations can do that in the world ." some have also argued this could be the start of a new regional alliance against iran . to others , though , that is a typical security and military perspective , one that celebrates technological success while missing the bigger political picture . the more pessimistic analysts argue that if iran wanted to inflict significant damage on israel , it could have refrained from giving advance warning , broadened its targets , launched a second wave of attacks - or even ordered hezbollah to mount a large attack from lebanon . emile hokayem from the international institute for strategic studies think tank said the operation revealed how much israel had to rely on allies for its defence . he also wondered whether israel would have enough air defence missiles needed for a higher intensity conflict . " as we ' ve seen in the war between ukraine and russia , it matters how much of the good stuff you have in stock ," he said . mr hokayem also dismissed the idea this crisis marked the beginning of a new regional military alliance . " we ' re not at the cusp of a new era ," he said . " arab states have cooperated because primarily they want to avoid a regional confrontation . and they want to demonstrate they ' re good partners to their western allies . it ' s also simply a matter of national sovereignty . they don ' t want stuff flying and exploding in their skies ." the second claim by optimists is that iran and israel have learned from this experience . they say both countries - for once - communicated their intentions accurately ; they realised they could de - escalate without losing face ; and they both had a scare that will re - establish mutual deterrence . iran may have attacked israel but it warned allies of its intent and signalled early it was a one - off . israel showed it could retaliate modestly , targeting air defences in central iran and using a small attack to signal a bigger capability , namely that it could hit iran where and when it wanted . i am told iran may even have been tipped off about israel ' s retaliation . certainly iran signalled from a very early stage it did not intend to respond to israel ' s counter - attack . both sides certainly will have learned military lessons . " the attack probably helped iran identify the relative strengths and the weaknesses of the israeli air defence system ," said the institute for the study of war . israel and the us will also have a greater understanding of iran ' s tactical strategies . the counter - argument is that both iran and israel broke a taboo , that direct attack is now an easier option . in an essay for foreign affairs , afshon ostovar from the foreign policy research institute says the scale of iran ' s attack shows it is no longer convinced by a policy of restraint . " the notion that iran intentionally launched a weak attack does not stand up to scrutiny ," he writes . " iran hoped to land an impressive blow against israel ." mr hokayem challenges the idea iran and israel have learned to understand each other . he cites israel ' s failure to realise the consequences of its decision to kill several elite iranian revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ) commanders in iran ' s consulate in damascus . " these two countries don ' t talk to each other . instead , they just signal through military posturing and third parties . these things can go badly quite quickly . wrongly reading the other side ' s intentions - or risk appetite - is a feature rather than a bug in the relationship ." there is also scepticism either side have re - established deterrence . amos harel , defence analyst for the israeli newspaper haaretz , said : " the two countries breached the previous rules of the game , with limited costsâ €¦ the balance of deterrence between the two countries ( is ) unsettled ." perhaps the key lesson learned by many in this crisis was just how close the region had come to full scale war . " it was just a huge relief ," one western diplomat told me . " it could have gone so differently ."