late on thursday night , the israel defense forces ( idf ) convened a meeting for a group of international journalists at the defence ministry building in tel aviv . the idf then set out for us the results of their initial inquiry into the killing of seven aid workers in gaza . retired maj gen yoav har - even described how the idf ' s drone operators mistook an aid worker carrying a bag for a gunman , and then targeted one of the world central kitchen vehicles with a missile . the idf then described how two people escaped that vehicle and got into a second car , which was hit by another missile from a drone . the military confirmed that there were survivors from the second explosion , who managed to get into the third vehicle - which was then also hit by a missile . by the end , all the aid workers were dead . the idf ' s investigation concluded that the army unit involved had believed the vehicles they were tracking from the sky had been taken over by hamas gunmen , and that they were not aware of the coordination procedures put in place between the military and world central kitchen for that evening . it also said they also did not know the cars belonged to the charity , and the three air strikes were in violation of the army ' s own procedures . the evidence from the investigation has been passed to the military advocate general - the israeli army ' s top legal authority - to determine if there has been any criminal conduct . in addition , the army has sacked the major in charge of fire support . the brigade ' s chief of staff , a colonel , has also been sacked . the divisional commander , brigade commander and the general in charge of the idf ' s southern command have been formally reprimanded . the idf sought to explain the context leading up to the fatal events of that evening . the aid workers had been overseeing the distribution of food aid that had arrived on a ship from cyprus and unloaded at a recently constructed jetty in the northern gaza strip . under coordination with the idf , the world central kitchen team were transferring these supplies to a warehouse a few kilometres further south . during this process , the idf says their drone operators spotted a gunman riding on the roof of a large aid lorry that was being escorted by the wck team . they played those of us at the briefing a somewhat blurry video - which has not been released to the public - showing a figure holding a gun , on top of the lorry . at one point the gun is fired , showing up clearly on the slowed - down black and white footage . at this stage the military contacts world central kitchen but they are in turn unable to reach the team on the ground - where phone communication is patchy and aid agencies say they are prohibited by the idf from using radios . the drone footage also appears to confirm that at night , the stickers on the roof of the world central kitchen vehicles , with the charity ' s logo , are not visible to the drone operator . the military then tracks the convoy , including the aid lorry , to a warehouse . then the convoy splits - the aid lorry remains in the warehouse and four suv - type cars emerge . one of those vehicles heads north , and is then shown to contain gunmen , with weapons clearly visible from the drone footage , as they emerge next to another aid warehouse . the idf say that these gunmen were not targeted , because of their proximity to an aid facility . meanwhile , three remaining vehicles belonging to world central kitchen begin to head south . the drone team , the army says , now working under the assumption that they are dealing with hamas militants and not an aid convoy , had misidentified one of the aid workers as a gunman , and claimed to have seen them enter one of the three wck cars . no footage of this moment was provided , but the military investigation concluded that it was a " misclassification ... they saw that it ' s a rifle but at the end of the day it was a bag ". under the mistaken belief that one vehicle now contained a gunman , authorisation to fire a missile is sought , and granted by superior officers . at 23 : 09 the first vehicle is struck , two minutes later the second , and at 23 : 13 the third final , fatal strike is launched . the military ' s conclusions are that three major failings occurred :