rishi sunak has called on " all sides " to " show restraint " after iran ' s attack on israel on saturday . the pm said he would speak to his israeli counterpart benjamin netanyahu to express solidarity and also discuss how to prevent " further escalation ". mr sunak told mps iran ' s actions had been " reckless and dangerous ". tehran launched more than 300 drones and missiles at israel in retaliation for a deadly air strike on its consulate in damascus . israel said 99 % of the projectiles had been intercepted with help from allies - including the us , uk and jordan . in a statement in the house of commons , mr sunak confirmed the raf had intercepted " a number of iranian drones " and said the air force was " the best of the best ". he said iran had " once again shown its true colours " and its attack had been intent on " further destabilising the middle east ". " saturday ' s attack was the act not of the people but of a despotic regime , and it is emblematic of the dangers that we face today ," mr sunak said , adding that threats to stability were " growing , not just in the middle east but everywhere ". he said the uk was " working urgently with our allies to de - escalate the situation and prevent further bloodshed ". " we want to see calmer heads prevail and we ' re directing all our diplomatic efforts to that end ," mr sunak said . turning to the ongoing war between israel and hamas , he said " nothing that has happened over the last 48 hours affects our position on gaza ". mr sunak said it was " israel ' s right , and indeed it ' s duty , to defeat the threat from hamas " but also reiterated his calls for a " long - term and sustainable ceasefire ". labour leader sir keir starmer said he " welcomed the prime minister ' s call for restraint " and that the attack " left the world a more dangerous place ". he added : " if diplomacy takes centre stage , and it must , then we also need to be clear diplomatic premises should not be targeted and attacked . that is a point of principle ." the strike on iran ' s consulate in syria on 1 april killed seven islamic revolutionary guard corps officers officers , including a top commander . the iranian government has accused israel of carrying out that attack , but israel has neither confirmed nor denied it . earlier , foreign secretary lord cameron told the bbc the uk had joined israel ' s defence against iran in order to prevent an escalation of the conflict . he said the attack - which he described as a " double defeat " for iran because it had been " almost wholly unsuccessful " and also showed they were a " malign influence in the region " - could have resulted in thousands of casualties and led to greater escalation had it been successful . lord cameron urged israel to be " smart " and " tough " as it considers its response . speaking to bbc radio 4 ' s today programme , the former prime minister added that israel should turn its focus once more to the situation in gaza and securing a deal to get the hostages home . lord cameron added that the uk did not support a retaliatory strike , echoing us president joe biden ' s comment that israel should " take the win ". the un secretary general antonio guterres and germany ' s foreign minister annalena baerbock have also called for calm , while french president emmanuel macron said france would do everything possible to avoid what he described as a regional conflagration . israel ' s cabinet and opposition leaders have met in tel aviv to consider their response to the attack . herzi halevi , chief of staff of the israel defense forces ( idf ), said iran ' s attacks would be " met with a response " and said israel was considering its next steps . earlier , a spokesperson for the uk prime minister said the country and its allies were " clearly not briefed " by tehran , in response to iran ' s assertion that it gave advanced warning of the attack . attack drones were intercepted by the raf in syrian and iraqi airspace , where it was already operating with the us as part of the operation shader mission against the islamic state group . lord cameron confirmed the uk ' s role was to " backfill " for the us and the raf had agreed to shoot down iranian drones if they came through that airspace . the ministry of defence has not said how many raf typhoons were airborne , nor how many weapons it shot down . the war in gaza was triggered after waves of hamas gunmen stormed into israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostage . israel vowed to eliminate hamas and has launched retaliatory operations in gaza which have killed more than 33 , 000 people , including thousands of children , according to the hamas - run health ministry . israeli prime minister mr netanyahu had been coming under increasing international pressure over how his government was handling the conflict , including over allowing more access to aid .