a military base in iraq housing a pro - iranian militia has been damaged in an explosion , killing one and wounding eight , security officials there have said . iraq ' s military reported no drones or fighter jets in the area before or during the blast . but the militia organisation involved , the popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ), blamed an attack . it comes amid heightened tensions between israel and iran . the pmf is an umbrella organisation that contains several pro - iranian militias that are part of the network of proxies that tehran has been able to use to advance its interests across the middle east for years . those militias have attacked us personnel and interests in iraq on a number of occasions in the past , with the aim of trying to force the remaining us troops to leave the country . the us has regularly struck back at the militias . the pentagon has , however , moved swiftly to deny any involvement in this incident . it comes as the long - running confrontation between israel and iran has recently moved into a new , more perilous phase , amid tensions heightened by the war in gaza . in contrast to the shadow war they have been engaged in for many years , both countries appear to have directly attacked each other ' s territory . there was a presumed israeli strike carried out near the iranian city of isfahan early on friday morning . the attack was an apparent response to a major drone and missile barrage that tehran launched on israel six days earlier . the iranian action was in retaliation for an earlier strike on senior iranian military commanders in the syrian capital damascus - widely believed to have been carried out by israel . while the conflict still seems contained to some extent for now , the iranian foreign minister has warned that iran will deliver an immediate and " maximum " response if israel launches significant attacks on its interests . the explosion at kalso military base , about 50km ( 30 miles ) south of baghdad , happened early on saturday morning , the military said . a member of the pmf was killed in the blast and eight others were wounded . in a statement , the pmf said its chief of staff abdul aziz al - mohammedawi had visited the base to review what investigators had found so far . the iraqi military also said it was investigating the cause of the explosion and fire at the base . " the air defence command report confirmed , through technical efforts and radar detection , that there was no drone or fighter jets in the air space of babil before and during the explosion ," a statement read . the us military ' s central command denied what it said were reports the us had carried out air strikes in iraq in a post on x , formerly known as twitter .