for the first time ever , iran has carried out strikes against israeli territory . in the middle of saturday night , air raid alerts went off in israel . residents were urged to seek shelter , while explosions were heard as air defences were activated . interceptions lit up the night sky in several places across the country , with many drones and missiles shot down by israel and its allies before they reached israeli territory . there is even thought to be at least one case of a ballistic missile being shot down outside the earth ' s atmosphere . at least nine countries were involved in the military escalation - with projectiles fired from iran , iraq , syria and yemen and downed by israel , the us , the uk and jordan . here ' s what we know about what was fired at israel and what was intercepted . iran launched more than 300 drones and missiles towards israel , the israeli military said on sunday . the attack included 170 drones and 30 cruise missiles , none of which entered israeli territory , and at least 110 ballistic missiles , of which a small number reached israel , military spokesman rear adm daniel hagari said in a televised statement . the bbc has not independently verified those figures . the shortest distance from iran to israel is about 1 , 000km ( 620 miles ) across iraq , syria and jordan . on saturday night , iran ' s revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ) said it had launched drones and missiles . iraqi security sources told reuters that projectiles were seen flying over iraq in the direction of israel . the irgc said ballistic missiles were fired almost an hour after the slower - moving drones , so that they would strike israel at roughly the same time . the us defence department said us forces intercepted dozens of missiles and drones launched from iran , iraq , syria and yemen . the iran - backed hezbollah group in lebanon also said it had fired two barrages of rockets at an israeli military base in the occupied golan heights , a plateau which israel has annexed from syria , in a move not recognised by most of the international community . some 99 % of the incoming barrage was intercepted either outside israeli airspace or over the country itself , rear adm hagari said . they included all the drones and cruise missiles , which follow a flat trajectory , and most of the ballistic missiles , which are fired on an arcing trajectory that uses gravity to reach very high speeds . since most of the projectiles came from relatively far away , israel was able to send f - 35 stealth fighters to intercept them . the idf said that 25 of the 30 cruise missiles sent by iran were shot down outside the country . for anything that got past this first line of defence , israel used its aerial defense array - the three - tier umbrella of missile defence systems in place since 7 october - apparently to good effect . the highest tier is arrow , used to physically intercept long - range projectiles . it is thought that arrow dealt with most of the ballistic missiles aimed at israel . dramatic footage which appears to show one of these missiles being shot down outside the earth ' s atmosphere suggests that arrow 3 - the most advanced of these systems , using exoatmospheric hypersonic anti - ballistic missiles - was employed . the next element in the tier , david ' s sling , would have been used to protect against short - range ballistic missiles , cruise missiles and drones , taking them out as far as 300km ( 186 miles ) away . finally , the iron dome system - which is designed to intercept unguided rockets heading for residential areas - has recently been upgraded to deal with the threat from drones . however , the israeli military said that none of the 170 drones fired by iran and its proxies reached israeli airspace . us president joe biden said us forces " helped israel take down nearly all " drones and missiles launched by iran on sunday . in a statement , he said the us had moved aircraft and warships to the region before the unprecedented attack . two aircraft and two destroyers were involved in intercepting the barrage . the destroyers deployed the aegis missile defence system to shoot down at least three ballistic missiles , according to cnn . us central command ( centcom ) said its forces had destroyed more than 80 drones and at least six ballistic missiles . among these were a ballistic missile on its launcher vehicle and seven drones , which were destroyed on the ground in houthi - controlled areas of yemen before they were launched . operating from undisclosed bases in the region , us forces shot down a number of iranian drones over southern syria near the border with jordan , security sources told reuters . however , former israeli national security council head giora eiland told the financial times that the biggest us contribution to the defensive operation was intelligence , which he described as " extremely precise ". and he said that a complex command and control system set up between the us , israel and arab neighbours more than four years ago had been effective in detecting and dealing with the threats . uk prime minister rishi sunak has confirmed that uk raf typhoon jets also shot down a number of iranian attack drones . mr sunak said the iranian attack was a " dangerous and unnecessary escalation which i ' ve condemned in strongest terms ". jordan - which has a peace treaty with israel , but has been highly critical of the way it has carried out its war against the palestinian group hamas in gaza - also intercepted flying objects that entered its airspace to secure the safety of its citizens , a jordanian cabinet statement said . mr eiland said jordan had advanced radar systems and air - to - air missiles , adding that its f - 16 pilots had shown that they could operate effectively at night . france helped to patrol airspace , but it was unclear if it had shot down any drones or missiles , the israeli military said . in jerusalem , bbc correspondents reported hearing sirens and seeing israel ' s missile defence systems in operation . a few of the ballistic missiles got through and struck israeli territory , rear adm hagari said . one of them " lightly hit " the nevatim air force base in the negev desert in southern israel . rear adm hagari said the base was " still functioning ". two us officials told the bbc ' s us partner cbs news that five ballistic missiles evaded air defences and impacted on israeli territory . four landed in the base - where the country ' s f - 35 fighter jets are based - which the officials said was iran ' s primary target . one missile hit a runway , another hit an empty aircraft hangar and one hit a hangar that was out of use . a fifth ballistic missile seemed to be aimed at a radar site in northern israel , but missed its target . of the 120 ballistic missiles fired by iran , about half of them failed on launch or crashed mid - flight , one of the officials told cbs . iran ' s official irna news agency said the attack had dealt " heavy blows " to the air base . a seven - year - old girl was severely injured by shrapnel , rear adm hagari said . the girl from a bedouin arab community near the southern town of arad , was reported to have been injured after an iranian drone was intercepted overhead . she was placed in intensive care . jordan also said that some shrapnel had fallen on its territory " without causing any significant damage or any injuries to citizens ". israel ' s channel 12 tv cited an unnamed israeli official as saying there would be a " significant response " to the attack . the country ' s war cabinet is due to meet again on monday to discuss options . israeli airspace has been reopened , as has that of neighbouring countries , but defence minister yoav gallant said the confrontation with iran was " not over yet ". meanwhile , iran has warned israel its response " will be much larger than tonight ' s military action if israel retaliates against iran ", armed forces chief of staff maj gen mohammad bagheri told state tv . he said us bases would also be attacked if the us took part in any israeli retaliation . irgc commander hossein salami also said tehran would retaliate against any israeli attack on its interests , officials or citizens . but foreign ministry spokesman nasser kanani said iran ' s strikes were a limited act of self - defence and said western countries should appreciate tehran ' s " restraint ". at an emergency meeting of the un security council on sunday , secretary - general antonio guterres called on both sides to " defuse and de - escalate ", as the region was on the brink of war . g7 leaders meeting by video conference on sunday called for restraint and condemned iran ' s attacks . additional reporting by robert greenall