after israeli forces pulled out of gaza city ’ s vast al - shifa hospital complex on 1 april , following their second raid there , stunned palestinians who pored over the burnt - out ruins said it reeked of death . during the past eight months of war , hospitals have come under repeated attack , with israel claiming they are used as bases by hamas ; something the group denies . but events at al - shifa – once the biggest and best equipped medical facility in the gaza strip – have arguably been the most dramatic . the two - week surprise raid , launched after israel said hamas had regrouped at the site , was described by the israeli government as " precise and surgical ". its spokesman , avi hyman , asserted that it had set " the gold standard of urban warfare ". he said : “ we took out over 200 terrorists . we apprehended over 900 terrorists with not a single civilian casualty .” with decaying bodies sticking out of the sand piled up by combat bulldozers in the courtyards of al - shifa , the claim that there had been no civilian casualties was immediately questioned . in recent weeks , four mass graves have been uncovered at the site , with palestinian search teams saying that several hundred bodies have been found . we have worked with a journalist in gaza to follow developments . “ we ’ ve extracted martyrs , many of whom are decomposed and completely unidentifiable ,” a palestinian civil defence worker , rami dababesh told us grimly on 8 may as he stood by a line of white plastic body bags at al - shifa , wearing a face mask and full protective gear .“ we ’ ve found corpses of women , children and individuals without heads as well as torn body parts ,” he added . the civil defence lacks forensic equipment and expertise , but its teams have been using photos and videos to document the remains . a director , dr mohamed mughir , told us there were suspicious finds ; describing how “ signs of field executions , binding marks , gunshot wounds to the head and torture marks on the limbs were observed on the bodies of some martyrs ". the un security council has expressed “ deep concern ” at the discovery of mass graves at both al - shifa and nasser hospital in southern gaza . along with the us and the european union , it has called for an independent investigation into possible war crimes . the israel defense forces ( idf ) says that during its raids of the gaza hospitals , its soldiers exhumed bodies that palestinians had buried earlier as part of its search for the remains of some 250 hostages captured during the deadly hamas attacks on israel on 7 october . it maintains bodies were examined respectfully and those not belonging to israeli captives were returned to their place . however , at least some of the corpses found recently at al - shifa were those of patients who died during israel ’ s latest military action . a paramedic involved in the search said some had iv catheters still attached . on 15 april , the bbc met two men whose dead mothers were last seen being treated at the hospital . their bodies had just been recovered from a mass grave .“ i came running here when they told me of the grave ,” said mohammed al - khatib , who had spent days searching for his mother , khawla . “ by the grace of almighty god her body was found .” walid fteima said his elderly mother , lina abu leila , was being treated for malnutrition and severe dehydration when she died . her body was decomposed , and he could only identify her from injuries she had from an israeli bombing last year . “[ she ] had a toe amputated on each foot ,” he explained . after it began its operation at the hospital early on 18 march , the idf ordered thousands of civilians sheltering there and living in the vicinity to leave and head south . however , it said the hospital could continue to function . by the end of two weeks , only some 140 patients and medics reportedly remained . the local who representative , dr rik peeperkorn , says this group endured “ horrific conditions ”. after being repeatedly moved around the complex , he says , they “ actually ended up in the human resources building which was completely unfit for treatment ". ultimately , he says , 20 patients died . several surviving patients – all wounded in previous israeli strikes – told us they were given only tiny quantities of food such as canned tuna . they said there were severe shortages of drinking water and medication .“ the bombing surrounded us 24 / 7 ,” said mohamed al - nadeem who is half paralysed . “ i am sick and unable to move . i was sleeping on the floor without blankets .” “ there were no dressings or painkillers ,” said rafif doghmush , 15 , whose foot has been amputated . the idf has told journalists that no staff or patients died as a “ direct result ” of its action , but that some may have died of “ natural causes ". during its raid , it said it helped patients by moving them out of harm ’ s way and that medical supplies and devices as well as food , water , and a generator were brought to the hospital . grainy drone footage shared by the idf after it launched its raid on 18 march showed palestinian gunmen apparently shooting at soldiers from inside al - shifa hospital . later , the gunmen were said to have barricaded themselves in wards and corridors , opening fire and throwing explosives . three israeli soldiers were confirmed to have been killed during the two - week long operation . the idf briefed journalists that its action at the hospital was taken based on “ concrete intelligence ” that hamas and palestinian islamic jihad had taken over parts of the site , suggesting their operatives had been using it to access basic supplies as well as power and the internet . while hamas denied using al - shifa as a base , its officials did not deny the presence of some members inside the complex , indicating that they may have been among displaced people sheltering there . israel has said that “ over 200 terrorists ” were killed in and around al - shifa , as well as the hundreds detained , but has only given some names . these include faiq al - mabhouh , described as head of operations in hamas ’ internal security service . the hamas - run government ’ s media office said he was a police commander who had been co - ordinating aid deliveries to northern gaza . others killed were identified as a senior hamas commander , raed thabet , said to have been head of recruitment and supply acquisition , and mahmoud zakzouk , said to have been deputy commander of the hamas rocket unit in gaza city . two other hamas operatives were named as fadi dweik and zakaria najib , said to have been involved in organising attacks in the occupied west bank . in april , the idf also released footage which it said was from the interrogation of tarek abu shaluf , spokesman for the political wing of islamic jihad . it said he had been captured at al - shifa . hamas and islamic jihad do not routinely confirm the names of low - level fighters killed by israeli military action , making it very difficult to estimate how many were killed at the hospital and in the vicinity . it is likely that a number were among the dead found in mass graves . despite the israeli claim that there was “ not a single civilian casualty ” from its raid , we have been given strong testimony that there were palestinian civilians killed by heavy israeli bombardment and intense shooting in the surrounding neighbourhood . the palestinian civil defence told us that hundreds of palestinians were still reported to be missing following the raid in march . there have repeatedly been conflicting narratives about what has happened in and around al - shifa . during its first controversial raid there , the israeli military raised expectations that israeli hostages might be found at the site . it also released a graphic depicting a vast underground tunnel network that it suggested was underneath the hospital , serving as a major hamas command and control centre . while the idf said it retrieved the bodies of two israeli hostages near to the hospital , it did not announce that it had found any within the complex . security camera footage that was recovered did show that at least two foreign captives were taken there on 7 october . the idf showed what it said was a fortified 55 - metre tunnel on the hospital grounds . this fell short of its initial claims about the extent of hidden tunnels , although later reporting suggested the passage – which was blown up – had actually been longer and was most likely connected to a wider network under gaza city . when it returned to the site in march , the idf suggested its key discoveries were of a different nature , releasing pictures of cash , weapons , and ammunition it said it had found there along with hamas documents . al - shifa has been at the heart of a debate about whether hamas uses medical sites as a cover . israel has consistently claimed that the group hides its fighters and infrastructure behind the sick and wounded , which it suggests has rendered hospitals legitimate military targets . hamas denies misusing civilian sites and accuses israel of violating international humanitarian law by targeting hospitals . in april , when the un called for “ a clear , transparent and credible investigation ” of mass graves in gaza , its spokesman stephane dujarric told reporters that more journalists needed to be able to work safely in the territory to report on the facts . during the war , israel and egypt have denied free access to foreign media . mr dujarric also said : “ it ’ s important that all forensic evidence be well preserved .” so far , that is proving to be a challenge . international forensic specialists have been unable to reach gaza to investigate what happened at al - shifa . that has left much of the focus locally on registering and identifying the dead where possible , and giving them proper burials . the disturbance of the mass grave sites , experts say , will ultimately make it much harder to uncover the truth about them . meanwhile , although al - shifa has been largely destroyed , there have been recent efforts to restart very limited medical services on site . these gained momentum as israel targeted other health facilities which it said were being used by hamas , particularly kamal adwan hospital in northern gaza . in late may , in a hastily repaired room of the kidney dialysis unit at al - shifa , the journalist working with us met four patients as they sat connected to steadily beeping machines . after so many deaths at the hospital , it is once again providing some life - saving treatment .