the us has told israel that its ongoing support on the gaza war is dependent on " specific , concrete steps " to boost aid and prevent civilian deaths . president joe biden spoke to israel ' s pm benjamin netanyahu in the wake of the deaths of seven world central kitchen ( wck ) staff on monday . israel apologised for a " grave mistake " but wck founder josé andrés said his workers were systematically targeted . mr biden faces pressure to rein in unconditional military aid for israel . in a readout of the telephone call between the two leaders , which lasted less than 30 minutes , the white house said that the president " emphasised that the strikes on humanitarian workers and the overall humanitarian situation are unacceptable ". " he made clear the need for israel to announce and implement a series of specific , concrete , and measurable steps to address civilian harm , humanitarian suffering , and the safety of aid workers ," the summary said . secretary of state antony blinken mirrored the white house statement when he said that if the us did not see changes from israel , then there would be a change of us policy . responding to a question of whether that could affect arms shipments to israel , the white house national security council spokesman john kirby said he did not want to " preview the steps and decisions " that were yet to be made . he added that the us expected israel to improve conditions in gaza within " hours and days ". mr kirby however stated that us support for " israel ' s self - defence remains iron - clad . the united states isn ' t going to walk away from helping israel defend itself ". " that said , you can say all that and ... still believe that the manner in which they ' re defending themselves against the hamas threat needs to change ." israel has yet to comment on the us statements . however , raquela karamson , government spokeswoman said before the biden - netanyahu call that israel would " certainly adjust our practices in the future to make sure this does not happen again ". the us statements are the most strident issued so far on israel - reflecting president biden ' s " outrage " at the killing of the world central kitchen workers , and signalling that there is a limit to us support . the statement however does not set out which " us policy " areas will be affected - but the bedrock to the us - israel relationship is the supply of weapons . mr biden ' s call with mr netanyahu came as the president faced rising domestic anger at israel ' s conduct in gaza , and growing demands from within his party to place conditions on arms transfers . delaware senator chris coons , a biden confidant and member of the powerful senate foreign relations committee , said that he would " vote to condition aid to israel " if mr netanyahu launched his long - threatened offensive on rafah , where 1 . 5 million displaced palestinians are camped , and made " no provision for civilians or for humanitarian aid ". " i ' ve never said that before , i ' ve never been here before ," mr coons told cnn on thursday . " i ' ve been a strong supporter of israel the whole time i ' ve served in congress . " the challenge is to make it clear that we support the israeli people ... but that the tactics by which the current prime minister is making these decisions don ' t reflect the best values of israel or of the united states ." mr biden has sharpened his rhetoric over israel ' s conduct in the nearly six - month - old war sparked by hamas ' s 7 october attack , and voiced his growing frustration with mr netanyahu . however , military supplies including bombs , missiles and ammunition have continued to flow from the us to israel uninterrupted . mr biden on tuesday said that he was " outraged and heartbroken " by the deaths of the seven wck workers , but added that it was " not a stand - alone incident " in a war where many aid workers had been killed . he said israel ' s promised investigation into the strike " must be swift , it must bring accountability , and its findings must be made public ". democratic congressman jim mcgovern , of massachusetts , said that mr biden ' s call and warning to israel on thursday was " quite frankly insufficient ". " simply expressing your deep concern over the terrible tragedy ... quite frankly is insufficient . i welcome the shift in tone by president biden . i think he ' s deeply troubled by this but i ' m not sure benjamin netanyahu will be moved by words . president biden has leverage and he ought to use that leverage ." according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry , more than 33 , 000 people - mostly women and children - have been killed in the war . the conflict was sparked by hamas ' s killing of more than 1 , 200 people in israel and the taking of 240 hostages in its attack on 7 october .