the father of an israeli hostage rescued during a military operation in gaza died a day before he could be reunited with his son , a relative has said . almog meir jan , 22 , was held in gaza for eight months after being kidnapped from the nova music festival on 7 october . he was one of four hostages who were rescued from central gaza on saturday , in an air and ground raid that also killed scores of palestinians . in the months before almog ' s release , the health of his father yossi deteriorated and he was " glued to the television ", his sister dina told israeli broadcaster kan ." he was worried that he ( almog ) was in the hands of murderers and about what was happening to him and what he was going through ," ms jan said . yossi jan is believed to have died of a heart attack .“ my brother died of grief and didn ’ t get to see his son return ," dina jan said . the rescue of almog jan and three other hostages was met with jubilation and relief in israel , as prime minister benjamin netyanhu praised special forces for operating " creatively and bravely ". but the humanitarian toll of the operation , which included a barrage of israeli airstrikes , has sparked condemnation . gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry said 274 people were killed in the operation . if confirmed , it would make it one of the deadliest days in gaza since the beginning of the conflict . a israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesperson said the death toll was fewer than 100 . qatar ' s prime minister called for an intensification of global pressure on israel to stop its " barbaric aggression " in gaza , during a summit in doha on sunday . the european union ' s top diplomat , josep borrell , condemned the killings as " another massacre of civilians ". an israeli minister said that instead of condemning hamas for hiding behind civilians , the eu had condemned israel for saving its citizens . israeli forces , backed by air strikes , fought intense gun battles with hamas in the nuseirat area , in what the israel defense forces called a " high - risk , complex mission " based on " precise " intelligence . in addition to almog meir jan , hostages noa argamani , 26 , andrei kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 , were rescued during the operation . some 116 people kidnapped in october remain in captivity . more than a third of them have already been confirmed dead , but that number is thought likely to be higher . benjamin netanyahu visited the four returned hostages in hospital , telling one " we didn ' t give up on you for one moment ".“ we expect hamas to release them all . but if they don ’ t , we will do whatever it takes to get them all back home ," mr netanyahu said outside hospital . on sunday , gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry said 37 , 084 people had been killed since the beginning of the conflict .