israel ' s public broadcaster has requested changes to the lyrics of a song submitted for this year ' s eurovision contest . organisers barred it last week for breaking rules on political neutrality . israeli broadcaster kan had pledged not to alter the lyrics of october rain - an apparent reference to the hamas attack on israel on 7 october . but israel ' s president isaac herzog called for " necessary adjustments " to ensure israel can enter the show . israel has won the eurovision song contest four times before . this year ' s event will be held in sweden - who won last year ' s contest - in may . kan is in the process of choosing its entry , with october rain the leading submission and dance forever in second place . in a statement on sunday , kan said it had contacted the lyricists of both songs and asked them to " readapt the texts , while preserving their artistic freedom ". president herzog , it added , had " emphasised that it is precisely at a time when those who hate us are seeking to repress and boycott the state of israel " that the country " must raise its voice " in international forums . last month , when the european broadcasting union said it was assessing the lyrics , kan said it had " no intention to replace the song ". israel ' s entry , to be performed by 20 - year - old singer eden golan , is due be confirmed next sunday . the original lyrics of october rain - written in english - were published on kan ' s website last month . they include the lines " they were all good children , every one of them " and " who told you boys don ' t cry / hours and hours / and flowers / life is not a game for the cowards ." the reference to flowers was significant , according to israel hayom newspaper , as it often denotes war fatalities . in previous years the ebu has forced national representatives to change their lyrics . in 2009 , georgia withdrew from the event after its proposed entry - we don ' t wanna put in - was rejected for its obvious references to the russian president . separately , musicians from other eurovision countries have called for israel to be suspended over the war in gaza . these include artists in iceland , finland , norway , denmark and sweden , with several pointing out that russia has been disqualified since its full - scale invasion of ukraine two years ago . so far , eurovision organisers have resisted those calls , arguing that the situations in ukraine and gaza are different .