students and staff at oxford and cambridge universities have begun protest camps against the war in gaza . so - called " liberated zones " were set up at oxford ' s museum of natural history and king ' s college , cambridge , earlier . the demonstrators called for the universities to cut financial ties with israel following its offensive in gaza . oxford university has previously expressed " profound sympathy for those suffering in gaza , israel , and the west bank ". in the past week , pro - palestinian protesters have have set up tents outside university buildings in cities including manchester , sheffield and newcastle as well as at goldsmiths , university of london . in a joint statement , oxford action for palestine and cambridge for palestine called for the universities to stop lending " financial and moral support " to the israeli government . " oxbridge ' s profits cannot continue to climb at the expense of palestinian lives , and their reputations must no longer be built on the white - washing of israeli crimes ," it said . cambridge jews for justice in palestine , a group of jewish students at the university of cambridge said it was also supporting the demonstration " to oppose israel ' s occupation of palestine ". more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in israel ' s offensive in gaza , the hamas - run health ministry there says , the majority of them civilians . israel rejects accusations that it is engaging in genocidal acts in its campaign in gaza , and has insisted it has the right to defend itself following the armed incursion by hamas on 7 october . on thursday , the union of jewish students said the encampments were creating a " hostile and toxic atmosphere " on campuses and called on universities to " take their duty of care to jewish students seriously ". in a statement , the university of oxford said it was aware of the latest protests . it added : " we respect our students and staff members right to freedom of expression in the form of peaceful protests . we ask everyone who is taking part to do so with respect , courtesy and empathy . " oxford university ' s primary focus is the health and safety of the university community , and to ensure any impact on work , research and learning , including student exams , is minimised ." king ' s college cambridge said : " we ask everyone in our community to treat each other with understanding and empathy . " we will not tolerate antisemitism , islamophobia and any other form of racial or religious hatred , or other unlawful activity ." follow bbc south on facebook , x , or instagram . send your story ideas to south . newsonline @ bbc . co . uk or via whatsapp on 0808 100 2240 .