the latest round in the region ' s most dangerous rivalry appears to be over , for now . israel still has not officially acknowledged that the attack in iran in the early hours of friday morning was its doing . meanwhile , iran ' s military and political leaders have downplayed , dismissed and even mocked that anything of consequence happened at all . the accounts over what kind of weaponry was deployed on friday and how much damage was caused are still conflicting and incomplete . american officials speak of a missile strike , but iranian officials say the attacks , in the central province of isfahan and in northwest tabriz , were caused by small exploding drones . " the downed micro air vehicles caused no damage and no casualties ," iran ' s foreign minister hossein amir - abdollahian insisted to the semi - official tasnim news agency . but these simple quadcopters are israel ' s calling card â €“ it has deployed them time and again in its years of covert operations inside iran . this time their main target was the storied central province of isfahan , which is celebrated for its stunning islamic heritage . of late , however , the province is more famous for the natanz nuclear facility , the isfahan nuclear technology centre and a major air base , which was used during iran ' s 14 april attack on israel . it is also an industrial heartland housing factories which produce the drones and ballistic missiles that were fired by the hundreds in israel ' s direction last sunday . so a limited operation seems to have carried a powerful warning â €“ that israel has the intelligence and assets to strike at will at iran ' s beating heart . it is a message so urgent that israel made sure it was sent before , rather than after , the start of the jewish passover , as was widely predicted by israel watchers . us officials have also indicated that israel targeted sites such as iran ' s air defence radar system , which protects natanz . there is still no confirmed account of its success . so this attack may also be just an opening salvo . but it was , for the moment , an unintended 85th birthday gift to iran ' s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei . israel ' s official silence gave iran ' s ultimate decision - maker vital political space . tehran did not have to invoke its new rule that whenever its arch - enemy strikes , iran will hit back hard , with the risk of sparking a perilous escalatory spiral . iran is also basking in what it sees as its new projection of power . hardline president ebrahim raisi did not even mention these most recent events in his friday speeches . for the islamic republic , it is all about what it dubs operation true promise â €“ its unprecedented onslaught against israel in the dead of night last sunday . he hailed what he called his country ' s " steely will ". iran has prided itself for years on its " strategic patience ", its policy of playing a long game rather than retaliating immediately and directly to any provocations . now , it is invoking " strategic deterrence ". this new doctrine was triggered by the 1 april attack on its diplomatic compound in damascus , which destroyed its consular annex and killed seven revolutionary guards , including its most senior commander in the region . iran ' s supreme leader was under mounting pressure to draw a line as israel ramped up its targets during the last six months of the grievous gaza war . no longer just striking tehran ' s assets , including arms caches , buildings , bases and supply routes on battle grounds like syria and lebanon , israel was also assassinating top - ranking officials . a decades - long hostility , which had previously played out in shadow wars and covert operations , erupted in open confrontation . whatever the specifics of this latest tit for tat , there is a more fundamental priority for both sides : deterrence â €“ a more solid certainty that strikes on its own soil will not happen again . if they do , there is a cost to pay , and it will hurt . for the moment there is an audible sigh of relief in the region , and in capitals far and wide . israel ' s latest move , under anxious urging from its allies to limit its retaliation , will have eased this tension , for now . everyone wants to stop a catastrophic all - out war . but no one will be in any doubt that any lull may not last . the region is still on fire . the gaza war grinds on , causing a staggering number of palestinian casualties . under pressure from its staunchest allies , israel has facilitated the delivery of greater quantities of desperately needed aid , but the blighted territory still teeters on the brink of famine . israeli hostages have still not come home , and ceasefire talks are stalled . israel still warns of battles to come in hamas ' s last stronghold in rafah â €“ what aid chiefs and world leaders say would be yet another untold humanitarian disaster . iran ' s network of proxies across the region , what it calls an " axis of resistance " stretching from hezbollah strongholds in lebanon through iran - aligned militias in iraq and syria , to the houthis of yemen , are at the ready , still attacking daily . in the last few weeks , simultaneously everything and nothing has changed in the region ' s darkest , most dangerous days .