seven aid workers from the world central kitchen ( wck ) have been killed in an israeli air strike in gaza , the charity ' s founder says . the victims were british , polish , australian , palestinian and also included a dual us - canadian citizen , wck said . israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu has acknowledged that the israeli military hit " innocent people ", describing it as tragic and unintentional . " it happens in war , we check it to the end , we are in contact with the governments , and we will do everything so that this thing does not happen again ," he said in a video message . here ' s what we know about the aid workers killed . ms frankcom died " doing the work she loves ", her family said in a statement . the aid worker from melbourne , australia was the wck ' s relief lead in gaza . she was described as a " kind , selfless and outstanding human being [ who ] travelled the world helping others in their time of need ". " she will leave behind a legacy of compassion , bravery and love for all those in her orbit ," they added . last month , wck posted a video on x of ms frankcom at their kitchen in deir al - balah , central gaza , which was newly opened . dora weekley , a friend and former wck colleague , told abc news that ms frankcom was " dedicated " and someone who made sure people in need had a hot meal to look forward to every day . ms weekley met ms frankcom in 2019 , when they responded to hurricane dorian in the bahamas , and worked with her again during the summer bushfires in australia . polish foreign minister radoslaw sikorski has confirmed mr sobol was killed . " our brave compatriot , mr damian sobol from przemysl , helped people in need in gaza where there is a humanitarian crisis . he was killed during an attack which the israeli army has accepted responsibility for ," he said in a video message on x . in an earlier post , he said he had personally asked the israeli ambassador for an " urgent explanation " for the strike . polish president andrzej duda wrote on x that it was " with deep pain " that he had learned about the deaths of the wck volunteers , including a polish citizen . " these brave people changed the world for the better with their service and dedication to others . this tragedy should never have happened and must be explained ," he said . mr sobol , from przemysl in south - eastern poland , was originally identified by the city ' s mayor in a facebook post . wojciech bakun called mr sobol a " fantastic boy " and said words could not describe how those who knew him were feeling . colleagues of mr sobol have posted comments on social media describing how he had taken part in delivering aid to ukrainian refugees following russia ' s full - scale invasion of ukraine . mourners gathered in the gazan city of rafah on tuesday for the funeral of the palestinian driver who was killed in the strike . hundreds of people mourned saifeddin issam ayad abutaha , whose body was transported to rafah , his hometown , where relatives , colleagues and friends carried him on their shoulders . " he was happy to work with an organisation that provides humanitarian aid to the displaced , our hearts are broken by your death , saif ," his close friend hassan said amid tears , sadness and anger . " you have hurt us with your passing , and we will not forget you . we pray for your mercy , saif , and may god give us patience and give patience to your family and loved ones ," he told the bbc . three british nationals were killed in the attack . they were all former soldiers who were working for uk - based security firm solace global as part of wck ' s security team . mr chapman was one of the three . his family described him as " an incredible father , husband , son and brother " who " will forever be a hero ". in a statement , they said they were " devastated " to have lost him , adding he died trying to help people . " he will be missed dearly ," they said . chris burns , who served with mr chapman in the military , remembers him as a " very , very bubbly [ man who ] got on with everybody ". " he was a very , very funny guy ," mr burns said on bbc world at one . mr kirby was born in bristol and had completed tours in bosnia and afghanistan with the british armed forces before working as a security consultant . his family said he would be " remembered as a hero " who will " never know the void he has left ". " james was always willing to lend a helping hand to anyone , even in the face of senseless violence ," they said in a statement . speaking to the bbc , mr kirby ' s cousin adam mcguire said he was " completely selfless " and " just wanted to help people ", which is why he had gone to gaza . another cousin , amy roxburgh - barry , described him as a " true friend " who " loved his mates , he loved his family ." mr henderson was the third british man killed . he had been in gaza for just over a week alongside with mr chapman and mr kirby . they were due to return home in days , the bbc understands . the three ' s roles as security advisers were to ensure the aid convoy travelling in gaza followed safety procedures and remained on the correct route . matthew harding , the non - executive director of the security company that employed them , said all three had extensive experience in risk management and were " all highly trained , highly professional ". he added that their deaths were " a truly tragic loss to both us and indeed their loved ones ". prime minister rishi sunak spoke to mr netanyahu on tuesday evening about the strike . downing street said the prime minister told mr netanyahu he was appalled by the incident and demanded a thorough and transparent investigation into their deaths . mr sunak said earlier he was " shocked and saddened " and sent his thoughts to the friends and families of the victims . he added that aid charities should be " praised and commended " for their work , which they should be allowed to do " unhindered ". the dual us - canadian was born in quebec and had served 11 years in the canadian armed forces . he had been a volunteer in gaza since early march . mr flickinger ' s parents told the bbc on thursday that their son had loved his job . " the work married his talents ," his father , john flickinger , said . " his love for adventure and his desire to serve and help others ." " he was such a good human being ," his mother sylvie labrecque said . " he was extremely devoted to his work and his family ." mr flickinger had recently settled in costa rica with his partner sandy and their 18 - month - old son , named jasper . " jasper will be a very good inspiration for us to stay strong ," mrs labrecque said . " right now , we ' re still in shock ." us secretary of state anthony blinken called the aid workers " heroes " who were " simply trying to help fellow human beings ". he said washington had spoken directly to the israeli government and urged " a swift , thorough and impartial investigation to understand exactly what happened ". canadian foreign minister mã © lanie joly echoed the call for a full investigation , and said : " strikes on humanitarian personnel are absolutely unacceptable ." more than 196 aid workers have been killed in gaza since october , according to the us - funded aid worker security database , which records major incidents of violence against aid personnel . most of those killed since the war broke out six months ago worked for the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa , which runs the biggest aid operation in gaza . about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 hostages taken when hamas launched its unprecedented attack on southern israel on 7 october . about 130 hostages remain in captivity , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead . since then , more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in gaza , including many women and children , the hamas - run health ministry says .