three united nations observers and a translator have been wounded by shelling in rmeish , southern lebanon , the un peacekeeping mission said . lebanon ' s state news agency reported that an israeli drone strike was behind the explosion , but the israeli military denied it was responsible . the un mission , unifil , said those hurt were receiving treatment and that it was investigating the blast ' s origin . it comes after rising tensions along the unofficial israel - lebanon border . in a statement , unifil said a shell had exploded near the group who had been on a foot patrol along the un - demarcated blue line that divides southern lebanon from israel . it described the targeting of peacekeepers as " unacceptable ". unifil spokesman andrea tenenti told the bbc that locations deeper inside lebanon were increasingly being chosen as targets , which " could potentially trigger a much wider conflict ". no details have been given about the nationality of the observers or their condition . the lebanese translator is reported to be stable . lebanon ' s state run national news agency said israeli " enemy drones " raided the area in southern lebanon where the observers were wounded . israel ' s military denied this , saying in a statement : " contrary to the reports , the idf [ israel defense forces ] did not strike a unifil vehicle in the area of rmeish this morning ." in recent days , tensions have again picked up along the unofficial border between israel and lebanon , with casualties on both sides . mr tenenti from unifil told the bbc ' s newshour programme that targeted and lethal shelling was now happening " pretty far away from the blue line " in lebanon . israel and the armed group hezbollah trade almost daily strikes across the border , which began with the start of the israel - gaza war following the 7 october hamas attack on israel . hezbollah is a lebanese shia muslim militant group with close ties to iran and an ally of hamas . on friday , israel ' s defence minister yoav gallant said the idf would increase its attacks against the group in lebanon , " shifting from repelling to actively pursuing hezbollah ". " wherever they are hiding we will reach them ," he said . meanwhile , israel has come under pressure from the us after it said it " cannot support " an anticipated large - scale ground offensive in rafah on gaza ' s border with egypt , where there are more than a million displaced people . us president joe biden ' s administration has been raising concerns about rising civilian deaths in gaza and humanitarian access to the territory , which the un says is on the verge of famine . on saturday , the idf admitted killing two palestinian men and burying their bodies with a bulldozer in " two different incidents " in gaza . it comes after al jazeera published an edited video purportedly showing the incident on wednesday . the bbc has not independently verified the video . the israeli military said the two men approached their forces " in a suspicious manner " and did not respond to a warning shot . they were killed and buried with a bulldozer over concerns the men carried explosives , the idf added .