the israeli military ' s intelligence chief has resigned , saying he took responsibility for the failures before hamas ' s attack on israel on 7 october . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said major general aharon haliva would retire once his successor was selected . he acknowledged in a letter that his intelligence directorate " did not live up to the task we were entrusted with ". he is the first senior figure to step down over the attack , which was the deadliest in israel ' s history . israeli military and intelligence officials missed or ignored multiple warnings before hundreds of hamas gunmen breached the gaza border fence that day and attacked nearby israeli communities , military bases and a music festival . about 1 , 200 israelis and foreigners - mostly civilians - were killed and 253 others were taken back to gaza as hostages , according to israeli tallies . israel responded by launching its most intense ever war in gaza with the aims of destroying hamas and freeing the hostages . more than 34 , 000 palestinians in gaza - most of them children and women - have been killed in the conflict , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . a statement put out by the idf on monday said maj gen haliva had " requested to end his position , following his leadership responsibility as the head of the intelligence directorate for the events of 7 october ". in his resignation letter , the general wrote : " i carry that black day with me ever since , day after day , night after night . i will carry the horrible pain of the war with me forever ." he also called for the establishment of a state commission of inquiry " that can investigate and find out in a thorough , in - depth , comprehensive and precise manner all the factors and circumstances that led to the difficult events ". " everything i did during my service in the idf was for the sake of the people of israel and the state of israel ," he added . maj gen haliva ' s resignation had been anticipated , given that he had stated 10 days after the attack that he bore full responsibility for the intelligence failures of his directorate . however , his departure is expected to be followed by further resignations among israel ' s senior military and intelligence commanders , with other officials having admitted errors and oversights in the run - up to 7 october . the idf ' s chief of staff , lt gen herzi halevi , and the director of the shin bet security service , ronen bar , have both taken responsibility for failing to protect israelis but decided to stay on for the war in gaza . monday ' s news may also add to the pressure on the veteran israeli prime minister , benjamin netanyahu . up to now , mr netanyahu has said only that he will answer tough questions about his own role , without acknowledging any responsibility , and has sought to deflect blame onto his security chiefs . he has said that a full inquiry should wait until the war in gaza is over . opposition leader yair lapid said on x ( formerly twitter ) that maj gen haliva ' s decision to resign was " justified and honourable ", but added that mr netanyahu " should have done the same ". in a video statement on sunday , the prime minister lamented that the 133 people still held in gaza would not be around the seder table with their loved ones for the jewish festival of passover . " their suffering and the suffering of their families rends our heart and only strengthens our resolve to bring them back ," he said . he claimed that hamas had " hardened its conditions " for a hostage release deal and threatened to " strike it with additional painful blows " in response . " in the coming days , we will increase the military and diplomatic pressure on hamas because this is the only way to free our hostages and achieve our victory ," he added . mr netanyahu did not specify the next steps , but he has repeatedly said that israeli forces intend to launch an operation in the southern city of rafah . the us and un have warned an all - out assault on rafah , where 1 . 5 million displaced palestinians are sheltering , could have catastrophic consequences .