the eu has agreed to expand sanctions on iranian producers of drones and missiles following tehran ' s unprecedented attack on israel . " it ' s very important to do everything to isolate iran ," european council president charles michel said . the bloc already has multiple sanctions in place against iran , including for selling drones to russia for use in its war against ukraine . the us has hinted it will impose its own new penalties in the coming days . the eu ' s new sanctions were agreed during a summit in brussels which marked the first meeting between the bloc ' s 27 leaders since iran ' s direct assault on israel on saturday , involving more than 300 missiles and drones fired from iran , iraq , syria and yemen which were mostly downed by israel and its allies . tehran has maintained it was retaliation for a presumed israeli air strike on its consulate in syria on 1 april , in which 13 people were killed . israel - which appears to have only countered with a diplomatic offensive so far - has not ruled out a response . but world leaders have continued to urge restraint , in a bid to prevent a wider conflict in the middle east . " for us , it is important that this moment is now also used for further de - escalation and that israel also uses this success to strengthen its position in the whole region and not respond with a massive attack of its own ," german chancellor olaf scholz said after wednesday ' s meeting . israel has called on its allies to sanction tehran ' s missile programme and for the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) - a major military and political force in iran - to be designated a terrorist organisation , something the us has done but the eu and uk have not . the eu already has a wide range of measures in place which target iran over its human rights abuses , nuclear proliferation activities and military support for russia . speaking about the possibility of further sanctions on tuesday , us treasury secretary janet yellen said that " all options to disrupt terrorist financing of iran continue to be on the table ". she also signalled that iran ' s oil exports could be " a possible area " washington targets . " clearly , iran is continuing to export some oil . there may be more that we could do ." in a later statement , us national security advisor jake sullivan said that iran ' s missile and drone programme as well as the irgc and the iranian defence ministry would also be covered .