the israel defense forces ( idf ) has finished building a new road which runs across northern gaza from east to west , according to satellite images verified by the bbc . the idf told the bbc they were attempting to gain an " operational foothold ", and facilitate the movement of troops and equipment . but some experts fear it will used as a barrier , preventing palestinians from returning to their homes in the north . others said it appeared to be part of an israeli plan to remain in gaza beyond the end of current hostilities . in february , prime minister benjamin netanyahu unveiled a post - war vision in which israel would control security in gaza indefinitely . international leaders have previously warned israel against permanently displacing palestinians or reducing the size of gaza . it runs across north gaza , with central and southern areas lying below it . it starts at gaza ' s border fence with israel near the nahal oz kibbutz and finishes near the coast . it also intersects with the salah al - din and al - rashid roads , the two major arteries running through the territory . although there is a network of roads which connect east and west , the new idf route is the only one which runs uninterrupted across gaza . satellite imagery analysis by the bbc reveals that the idf has built over 5km ( 3 miles ) of new road sections to join up previously unconnected roads . the initial section of the road in eastern gaza near the israeli border was established between late last october and early november . but most of the new sections were built during february and in early march . the new route is wider than a typical road in gaza , excluding salah al - din . imagery analysis also shows that buildings along the route , which appear to be warehouses , were demolished from the end of december until late january . this includes one building several stories high . the road spans an area which previously had fewer buildings and was less densely populated than other parts of gaza . it also sits below a makeshift and winding route which the idf had been using to move from east to west . an israeli tv channel reported on the route in february , saying it was code named " highway 749 ". a reporter from channel 14 travelled along parts of the route with the israeli military . in the video , road construction vehicles and diggers were seen preparing for the construction of new sections of the route . analysts at janes , a defence intelligence company , said the type of unpaved road surface seen in the channel 14 footage , was suitable for tracked armoured vehicles . the idf did not go into this type of detail in its statement . " as part of the ground operation , the idf uses an operational route of passage ," it said . retired brig gen jacob nagel , former head of israel ' s national security council and a former security adviser to mr netanyahu , told bbc arabic that the objective of the new route was to provide fast access for security forces when dealing with fresh threats . " it will help israel go in and out ... because israel is going to have total defence , security and responsibility for gaza ," he told bbc arabic . he described it as " a road that divides the northern part from the southern part ". " we don ' t want to wait until a threat is emerging ," he added . maj gen yaakov amidror , formerly of the idf , had a similar view . the primary purpose of the new road was to " facilitate logistical and military control in the region ", he said . justin crump , a former british army officer who runs sibylline , a risk intelligence company , said the new route was significant . " it certainly looks like it ' s part of a longer - term strategy to have at least some form of security intervention and control in the gaza strip ," said mr crump . " this area cuts off gaza city from the south of the strip , making it an effective control line to monitor or limit movement , and has relatively open fields of fire ." khaled elgindy , a senior fellow at the us - based middle east institute , also thinks the road is a long - term project . " it appears that the israeli military will remain in gaza indefinitely ," he told the bbc . " by dividing gaza in half , israel will control not only what goes in and out of gaza , but also movement within gaza ," said the analyst . " this includes quite possibly preventing the 1 . 5 million displaced palestinians in the south from returning to their homes in the north ." additional reporting by paul cusiac , alex murray & erwan rivault