world central kitchen ( wck ) founder josé andrés says he is " heartbroken " over the deaths of aid workers in a strike by israel - which he has urged to stop its " indiscriminate killing ". seven of the us - based food charity ' s workers were killed on monday when leaving a warehouse in gaza . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has acknowledged that israel ' s forces hit " innocent people ". in his statement , mr andrés said he was grieving for the victims ' families . " these are people ... angels ," he wrote in a post on x , formerly twitter . " they are not faceless ... they are not nameless ." " the israeli government needs to stop this indiscriminate killing ," he added . " it needs to stop restricting humanitarian aid , stop killing civilians and aid workers , and stop using food as a weapon ." in a separate statement , wck ' s chief executive officer erin gore said the killing of the aid workers was " unforgivable ". " this is not only an attack against wck , this is an attack on humanitarian organizations showing up in the most dire of situations where food is being used as a weapon of war ," she said . president joe biden spoke to the organisation ' s founder , mr andrés , saying he was " heartbroken " over the deaths , white house press secretary karine jean - pierre said on tuesday . mr biden " is grieving with the entire wck family ", she said . mr andrés , a two - star michelin chef , established wck in response to the 2010 earthquake in haiti . the group has provided meals in a host of war - torn places , including ukraine . it has become one of the main suppliers of desperately needed aid to gaza . the group has named the seven killed : the three british nationals killed were part of wck ' s security team , according to the group , while the rest worked for the agency ' s " relief " team . wck has paused operations in the country as a result of the killings . the organisation said the strike happened despite " co - ordinating movements " with the israel defense forces ( idf ). the idf said it was conducting a " thorough review " into what it called a " tragic incident ". mr netanyahu confirmed on tuesday that " innocent people " were hit in what he called an " unintentional " strike . " it happens in war , we check it to the end , we are in contact with the governments , and we will do everything so that this thing does not happen again ," he said . mr andrés said he had served alongside some of the workers providing humanitarian aid in several countries . " no more innocent lives lost ," he wrote on x . " peace starts with our shared humanity . it needs to start now ."