an israeli missile has hit iran , us officials have told the bbc ' s partner cbs news - an attack that is widely seen as its response to iran ' s missile and drone attack on israel . iran ' s own direct attack on israel - its first ever - was in turn retaliation for an israeli strike on the iranian consulate in the syrian capital damascus , which killed senior military commanders . previously israel and iran had been engaged in a years - long shadow war - attacking each other ' s assets without admitting responsibility . those attacks have ratcheted up considerably during the current war in gaza sparked by the palestinian group hamas ' s assault on nearby israeli communities last october . the two countries were allies until the 1979 islamic revolution in iran , which brought in a regime that has used opposing israel as a key part of its ideology . iran does not recognise israel ' s right to exist and seeks its eradication . the country ' s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , has previously called israel a " cancerous tumour " that " will undoubtedly be uprooted and destroyed ". israel believes that iran poses an existential threat as evidenced by tehran ' s rhetoric , its build - up of proxy forces in the region including the lebanese shia militant group hezbollah that are sworn to israel ' s destruction , and its funding and arming of palestinian groups including hamas . it also accuses iran of secretly trying to develop nuclear weapons , though iran denies seeking to build a nuclear bomb . the 1 april air strike on an iranian consulate building in the syrian capital damascus killed 13 people . iran said it was a violation of its sovereignty . those killed included brig gen mohammad reza zahedi - a senior commander in the quds force , the overseas branch of iran ' s elite republican guards ( irgc ). he had been a key figure in the iranian operation to arm the lebanese shia armed group hezbollah . the consulate attack follows a pattern of air strikes against iranian targets widely attributed to israel . several senior irgc commanders have been killed in air strikes in syria in recent months . the irgc channels arms and equipment , including high precision missiles , through syria to hezbollah . israel is trying to stop these deliveries , as well as seeking to prevent iran from strengthening its military presence in syria . iran launched more than 300 drones and missiles towards israel , the israeli military said . the attack included 170 drones and 30 cruise missiles and at least 110 ballistic missiles . some 99 % of the incoming barrage was intercepted either outside israeli airspace or over the country itself , israel said . israel and countries including the us , uk , france and jordan intercepted drones and cruise missiles while its three - trier umbrella of missile defence systems intercepted ballistic missiles . nevertheless , two us officials told cbs news that five ballistic missiles evaded air defences and impacted on israeli territory . four landed in the nevatim air base in the negev desert in southern israel - where the country ' s f - 35 fighter jets are based - which the officials said was iran ' s primary target . the israeli military said the base had been " lightly hit ". tom fletcher , a foreign policy advisor to several uk prime ministers and a former uk ambassador to lebanon , said " iran did telegraph these attacks in advance which made them easier to deter ". sanam vakil from the chatham house think tank said : " the strikes were certainly calibrated , directed to military installations with the aim of not inflicting too much damage or hurting anyone ." us officials have confirmed to the bbc ' s partner cbs news that an israeli strike targeted iran in the early hours of friday . it is unclear what type of weapons were used and where they were launched from . us sources said a missile was involved in the attack , while iran said it had involved small drones . iran ' s fars news agency said explosions were heard near an army base and air defence systems were activated . hossein dalirian , a spokesman for iran ' s national centre of cyberspace , said there was " no air attack from outside borders ". he said israel had " only made a failed and humiliating attempt to fly quadcopters [ drones ] and the quadcopters have also been shot down ". isfahan province is a large area in the centre of iran which takes its name from its largest city . the region is home to significant iranian military infrastructure , including a large airbase , a major missile production complex and several nuclear facilities . iran is much bigger than israel geographically and has a population of nearly 90 million , nearly ten times as big as israel ' s - but this does not translate into greater military power . iran has invested heavily in missiles and drones . it has a vast arsenal of its own , but has also been supplying significant amounts to its proxies - the houthis in yemen and hezbollah in lebanon . what it lacks is modern air defence systems and fighter jets . russia is believed to be co - operating with iran to improve those , including by providing su - 35 fighter jets , in return for the military support tehran has given moscow in its war on ukraine . by contrast , israel has one of the most advanced air forces in the world . according to the iiss military balance report , israel has at least 14 squadrons of jets - including f - 15s , f - 16s and the latest f - 35 stealth jet . israel also has experience of conducting strikes deep inside hostile territory . the shortest distance between iran and israel is about 1 , 000km ( 620 miles ). israel is assumed to have its own nuclear weapons but maintains an official policy of deliberate ambiguity . iran does not have nuclear weapons and also denies it is attempting to use its civilian nuclear programme to become a nuclear armed state . last year the global nuclear watchdog found uranium particles enriched to 83 . 7 % purity - very close to weapons grade - at iran ' s underground fordo site . iran said " unintended fluctuations " in enrichment levels may have occurred . iran has been openly enriching uranium to 60 % purity for more than two years in breach of a 2015 nuclear deal with world powers . however that deal has been close to collapse since us president donald trump pulled out unilaterally and reinstated crippling sanctions on iran in 2018 . israel had opposed the nuclear deal in the first place . iran has built up a network of allies and proxy forces in the middle east that it says form part of an " axis of resistance " challenging us and israeli interests in the region . it supports them to varying degrees . syria is iran ' s most important ally . iran , along with russia , helped the syrian government of bashar al - assad survive the country ' s decade - long civil war . iran ' s relationship with russia is also becoming increasingly significant . in december the russian foreign ministry said the countries would speed up work on a " major new interstate agreement ". iran has provided russia with shahed attack drones . in february , reuters quoted sources as saying iran had also provided ballistic missiles . iran denied the report . meanwhile iran says russia plans to provide iran with more advanced aircraft . of the armed groups that iran backs , hezbollah in lebanon is the most powerful . it has been trading cross - border fire with israel on an almost daily basis since war erupted between israel and hamas . tens of thousands of civilians on both sides of the border have been forced to leave their homes . iran backs several shia militia in iraq which have attacked us bases in iraq , syria and jordan with rocket fire . the us retaliated after three of its soldiers were killed at a military outpost in jordan . in yemen , iran provides support to the houthi movement , which controls the most populated areas of the country . the houthis have fired missiles and drones at israel and have also been attacking commercial shipping near its shores , sinking at least one vessel . the us and uk have struck houthi targets in response . iran also provides weapons and training to palestinian armed groups including hamas , which attacked israel on 7 october last year . however , iran denies any role in the 7 october attack itself .