in the last few seconds of his life , rami hamdan al - halhouli lit a firework and held it above his head . then there were three sharp cracks - the first was a police officer ' s bullet , the second was the firework leaving rami ' s hand , the third was the sound of the firework bursting over rami ' s body in a bright shower of red and gold . rami al - halhouli was a 12 - year - old palestinian boy born and raised in shuafat , a refugee camp in occupied east jerusalem that is home to about 16 , 000 people . on tuesday night , rami was playing with his brother and friends in front of the family home when they urged him on to light a firework . he pointed it away from him , roughly in the direction of some israeli border police , but aimed up into the sky . according to video of the incident , before even the firework could go off rami was hit by a bullet fired by a border police officer positioned some distance away . in a statement , the police said a single shot was fired at a suspect who had " endangered the forces while firing aerial fireworks in their direction ". the police have not yet released rami ' s body to the family . the police did not respond to specific questions about the shooting , but the family told the bbc on wednesday that the bullet hit rami in his heart . " there was no hope ," said his older brother mahmoud , 19 , who rushed to rami the moment he was shot . " he was already dead ." rami ' s mother rawia , 50 , was inside the family home when the shot rang out . when she heard someone shouting her name she ran out into the night . " i did not think anything too bad at first because there had been no clashes with the police or any demonstrations around , no sounds of gunshots or percussion grenades ," she said . " then i saw rami ' s body lying on the ground and i thought he had fallen down from the games the children were playing . when they turned his body , i saw the hole in his chest . the bullet was in his heart . then i began to scream ." rami was one of six palestinians shot dead by israeli security forces in occupied east jerusalem and the west bank on tuesday , marking a grim start to the islamic holy month of ramadan , with the mood already clouded by the war taking place in the gaza strip between israel and the palestinian armed group hamas . at a press conference on wednesday morning , israel ' s far - right national security minister itamar ben - gvir hailed the officer who shot rami as a " hero and a warrior ", saying he had done an " exemplary job " and would receive the full support of the minister ' s office . mr ben - gvir branded rami al - halhouli a " terrorist ". not far from the police station where the minister spoke , on wednesday , rawia al - halhouli was sitting in her living room surrounded by friends , relatives and tearful mourners who came one at a time to pay their respects . outside in the courtyard , rami ' s father ali , 60 , was sitting with the men of the family and friends , unable for more than a few minutes to hold back his tears . " i ask you , a kid the age of 12 , how is he a terrorist ?" ali said . " he was fasting and he broke his fast and he went out afterwards and he was playing with the other kids . it is ramadan , they set off fireworks . they were playing ." rami was a " good kid ", ali said . " he was good at school , he was smart , he helped our neighbours . this was his neighbourhood and he never went any further . he was not a troublemaker ." the officer who killed rami was " just a guy following orders ", he added . " it really all comes from ben - gvir ," he said . " he will not let any palestinian have peace ." the bbc asked the israeli police on wednesday to provide any evidence it had showing violence , rioting or any other incidents of concern in the area in the days or hours leading up to the shooting , or any evidence against rami al - halhouli , but they did not provide any . they referred instead to a written police statement published on tuesday which described " a violent disturbance occurred in shuafat , including the throwing of molotov cocktails and direct shooting of aerial fireworks towards security forces ". leaflets written in arabic and distributed by israeli police in shuafat camp on tuesday - copies of which were provided to the bbc by residents - said that 15 to 20 youths had organised to go to evening prayers " with the aim of violating the rules , launching fireworks , and throwing molotov cocktails ". " the police will never tolerate acts of violence of any kind and will take strict action against anyone who acts violently or attempts to harm them ," the leaflets said . the israeli border police announced on wednesday night that an officer had been conditionally released from custody following questioning in connection with the shooting in shuafat camp . there has been a surge in violence in the occupied west bank since the beginning of the war in gaza . at least 418 palestinians - including members of armed groups , attackers and civilians - have been killed by israeli forces , according to the un . in the same period , 15 israelis , including four security forces personnel , have been killed . according to the most up - to - date figures from the israeli human rights organisation b ' tselem , 519 children were killed by israeli forces in east jerusalem and the west bank between 2000 and the beginning of october 2023 . " israel has a policy of being light on the trigger when it comes to dealing with palestinians ," said dror sadot , a spokeswoman for b ' tselem . " we have documented dozens of cases like this over the years . we haven ' t investigated this specific case yet , in shuafat , but it appears that the boy presented no danger to the police ." salim anati , a doctor who has lived and worked in shuafat camp since it was built in 1965 , told the bbc that he had treated at least 20 children there during his years who had lost one or both eyes after being hit by rubber bullets , and knew at least 10 who were killed . " so many children are injured , so many are imprisoned , if they are not imprisoned they are not allowed to leave their homes ," dr anati said . " it is a very hard life here for a child ." rami had " not even been lucky enough to escape from the camp ," he added . " all his childhood was under occupation ". on the last day of his life , rami slept until noon , his mother rawia said , and then played games inside the house until she made him help her prepare for iftar - the evening meal that breaks the daily ramadan fast at sunset . after the family ate , rami went to mosque for prayers , then came home and asked his parents for pocket money to go to the shop . his father said no , he wanted rami to stay home . " but i went to him and told him quietly , i will give you some pocket money if you go straight there and come back ," rawia said . " within five minutes of leaving the house , he was gone ." muath al - khatib contributed to this report . photographs by joel gunter .