israeli forces have recovered the bodies of three hostages from gaza , the israel defense forces ( idf ) say . the bodies were those of shani louk , amit buskila , and itzhak gelerenter , it said . the idf said they had been murdered on 7 october and their remains taken back to gaza . local media reported that the bodies were found in a hamas tunnel . about 1 , 200 people were killed in an unprecedented attack when hamas gunmen burst into israel . they took 252 others back to gaza as hostages . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu called the news " heart - breaking "." we will return all of our hostages , the living and the deceased alike ," he said . in a statement , the idf said the bodies had been recovered in an operation overnight . it said it had acted on intelligence gleaned from " interrogations of terrorists " who had been detained in gaza . it said the three victims had been killed at an intersection near the site of the nova festival massacre in southern israel , before their bodies were taken to gaza . more than 360 people were killed at the festival . about 125 hostages remain unaccounted for , with the others having been released or rescued . in october , the mother of shani louk - a joint german - israeli citizen - said the israeli military had confirmed her daughter had died after a piece of her skull bone was found . however , it was hoped that amit buskila and itzhak gelerenter were still alive . ms louk ' s father nissim louk told bbc radio 4 ' s today programme on saturday that the family were relieved they could now bury their " beautiful girl ".“ she brought light to the world ," he said . mr louk added that the image of shani being paraded through the streets by armed fighters on a flatbed truck - which was circulated on social media soon after the 7 october attacks - contrasted with photos of her smiling and being carefree . he described this as the difference between " cruelty and love ". ms buskila was a fashion stylist and social media influencer , who had been on the phone to her uncle while trying to hide when she was kidnapped on 7 october . mr gelerenter was a father and grandfather who arrived at the nova festival only hours before the attacks began . the hostages family forum , a group bringing together relatives of those being held , said they " bow their heads in deep sorrow and with broken hearts following the announcement ". they said the three had been killed by " hamas terrorists ", adding , " may their memories be a blessing ". under a deal agreed in november , hamas released 105 hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . it is not clear how many of those unaccounted for are still alive . following the idf ' s announcement , the armed wing of hamas said the captives they hold would return only through an " honourable exchange deal for our people ". long - running talks in cairo aimed at securing a truce and further hostage releases are currently stalled . after the 7 october attacks , israel launched an offensive in gaza that has killed more than 35 , 000 people , mostly civilians , according to the hamas - run health ministry . about 2 . 2 million palestinians are facing chronic food shortages and are in urgent need of shelter and other assistance , the un says .