the un general assembly has enhanced palestine ' s rights within the organisation and urged it be accepted as a member following heated debate . palestine has had non - member observer state status since 2012 , which allows some rights short of a full member . membership can only be decided upon by the un security council . friday ' s vote can be seen as a gesture of support for the palestinians by the full un body , despite strident israeli opposition . palestinian president mahmoud abbas welcomed the resolution , saying it supported palestinian efforts for another vote on the issue by the security council . " palestine will continue its endeavour to obtain full membership in the un ," he said in a statement . israel ' s ambassador to the un , gilad erdan , said the body had welcomed a " terror state " into its ranks . addressing the assembly erdan shredded a copy of the un charter - accusing members of having metaphorically done just that by passing the resolution by 143 vote to 9 . " you are shredding the un charter with your own hands ," he said . " yes , yes , that ' s what you ' re doing . shredding the un charter . shame on you ." nations voting against the resolution were the us , argentina , the czech republic , hungary , israel , micronesia , nauru , palau and papua new guinea . the uk was one of 25 nations to abstain . palestinian envoy riyad mansour told the general assembly before the vote that a " yes " vote was " a vote for palestinian existence , it is not against any state . it is an investment in peace ". " we want peace , we want freedom ," mr mansour told members . the vote comes as several european countries reportedly plan to recognise a palestinian state . eu foreign policy chief josep borrell told spanish broadcaster rtve on thursday that spain would do so on 21 may . he has previously said ireland , slovenia and malta would also take the step , without confirming the date . friday ' s un resolution confers additional rights on palestine at the world body , allowing it to take part fully in debates , propose agenda items and have its representatives elected to committees . it will still not , however , have the right to cast a vote - something the general assembly does not have the power to grant and would have to be backed by the security council . the issue of palestinian statehood has vexed the international community for decades . in 1988 , the palestine liberation organisation ( plo ), the main representative of the palestinians , first declared the establishment of the state of palestine . according to the reuters news agency , palestinian statehood has been recognised by 139 out of 193 un member states - although this is largely seen as symbolic . in practice , the palestinians have limited self - government through the palestinian authority ( pa ) in parts of the israeli - occupied west bank . the pa lost control of the gaza strip to hamas in 2007 . the un considers both territories as occupied by israel and comprising a single political entity . israel does not recognise palestinian statehood and the current israeli government opposes the creation of a palestinian state in the west bank and gaza . it argues such a state would be a threat to israel ' s existence . the us endorses the creation of an independent palestinian state alongside israel - the so - called two state solution to the israel - palestinian conflict - but says such a state should only come through direct negotiations between the two sides . last month , the us used its veto as one of the five permanent members of the security council to block a widely backed algerian resolution seeking palestine ' s admittance as a state , calling it " premature ". security council resolutions are legally binding , whereas general assembly resolutions are not .