us secretary of state antony blinken has told hamas that it is " time for the haggling to stop ", after its leaders proposed " numerous changes " to a plan for a gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal . he told reporters in doha that some of the changes were " workable " and others were not , but that the us and mediators qatar and egypt would " try to close this deal ". hamas said on tuesday that it was ready to " deal positively " with the process but stressed the need for israel to agree to a permanent ceasefire and full withdrawal from gaza . the israeli government did not comment , but an anonymous official said the palestinian armed group ’ s response amounted to a rejection . israel ’ s prime minister has not yet publicly endorsed the proposal , which us president joe biden said had been offered by the country when he outlined it 12 days ago . but mr blinken said benjamin netanyahu had " reaffirmed his commitment " during a meeting in jerusalem on monday . the un security council also passed a resolution supporting the proposal that day , adding to the diplomatic pressure that washington is exerting . the bbc is part of the travelling press pool on the us secretary of state ’ s visit to qatar - a glittering gulf location that belies the sense of regional crisis he is attempting to solve with a diplomatic tour taking place at breakneck speed . there was an embrace and smiles mr blinken met the qatari prime minister and foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdul rahman al thani . his country is a key player in this crisis , having hosted the political offices of hamas for more than a decade and been a conduit for negotiations with israel . mr blinken seemed exasperated as he told a joint news conference that they had been discussing the changes requested by hamas to the us - backed ceasefire proposal ." a deal was on the table that was virtually identical to a proposal that hamas put forward on 6 may - a deal that the entire world is behind , that israel has accepted , and hamas could have answered with a single word : ' yes '," he said ." instead , hamas waited nearly two weeks and then proposed more changes , a number of which go beyond positions that it had previously taken and accepted . as a result , the war that hamas started … will go on , more people will suffer , palestinians will suffer , more israelis will suffer ." mr blinken did not clarify what changes he said hamas was demanding , nor did a brief statement issued by the group itself on tuesday evening . the statement did , however , reiterate a demand for what hamas called " a complete halt of the ongoing aggression against gaza " and the full withdrawal of israeli forces . a member of hamas ' s political bureau , izzat al - rishq , said the response was " responsible , serious and positive " and that it opened up " a wide pathway " to reach an agreement . the israeli prime minister ’ s office did not release an on - record reply . but a statement was issued by an anonymous israeli official , who said that hamas had " changed all of the main and most meaningful parameters " and " rejected the proposal for a hostage release that was presented by president biden ". in a later statement on wednesday , cited by reuters news agency , hamas said it had shown " full positivity " in its efforts to reach an agreement , adding that it had urged mr blinken to put " direct pressure " on israel . despite the setbacks , mr blinken said the us , along with qatar and egypt , would " try to close this deal "." i believe those gaps are bridgeable . but that doesn ' t mean they will be bridged because , ultimately , hamas has to decide ." sheikh mohammed said both hamas and israel needed to make some concessions ." we are witnessing a shift in this conflict in the recent period and there is a clear and firm call to end this war ," he noted . mr blinken also said it was crucial to develop plans for the “ day after the conflict ” in gaza as soon as possible in order to achieve an enduring end to the war ." in the coming weeks , we will put forward proposals for key elements of a ' day after plan ', including concrete ideas for how to manage governance , security , reconstruction ," he added . the israeli military launched a campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to an unprecedented attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage . more than 37 , 200 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 of the hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . israel says 116 hostages are still being held , 41 of whom are presumed dead . mr biden said the new proposal involved three phases . the first would involve an initial six - week ceasefire , when hamas would release some of the hostages - including women , the elderly and the sick or wounded - in exchange for israel releasing an undefined number of palestinian prisoners . there would also be a withdrawal of israeli forces " from all populated areas of gaza " and a " surge " in humanitarian assistance . the second phase would see all remaining living hostages released and the withdrawal of all israeli forces from gaza as part of a “ permanent cessation of hostilities ", but the latter would still be subject to further negotiations . during the third phase , the remains of any dead hostages would be returned and a major reconstruction plan for gaza would commence . while the white house is in effect trying to bounce the sides into progress on an agreement , israel ’ s leadership remains deeply sceptical about it . far - right ministers are pressuring mr netanyahu to ignore washington ’ s diplomacy and have threatened to quit his governing coalition and trigger its collapse if the us - backed proposal goes forward , seeing it as a surrender to hamas . the prime minister has not unequivocally voiced support for the plan , which he has acknowledged was authorised by his war cabinet . the actual israeli proposal - reportedly lengthier than the summary presented by mr biden - has not been made public and it is unclear whether it varies from what the president conveyed . it was presented to hamas days before mr biden ' s speech .