israel ' s military has said it is prepared for any iranian threat , as tension builds after monday ' s attack on an iranian consulate in damascus . israel is widely believed to be behind the attack , which iran said killed seven revolutionary guard officers . an iranian official said on sunday that israel ' s embassies were " no longer safe ", as it prepares a response . us and israeli forces in the region have been put on high alert in anticipation of a possible attack . reports in the us media suggest iran ' s retaliation could take place in the coming days . " the idf [ israel defence forces ] can handle iran ," chief of general staff herzi halevi said in a televised statement . " we can act forcefully against iran in places near and far ." yahya rahim safavi , a senior adviser to supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , said iran had a " legal and legitimate right " to respond to monday ' s strike . " the embassies of the zionist regime are no longer safe ," he told iran ' s isna news agency . he did not provide further detail as to what shape iran ' s response would take . in a statement , israeli defence minister yoav gallant said the defence establishment had completed preparations to respond to any possible scenario . the idf has halted all leave for soldiers serving with combat units and called up reservists to bolster air defence . israel has also blocked gps signals across swathes of the country in order to disrupt missiles and drones . media outlets in israel have reported that some of the country ' s embassies were evacuated over potential iranian attacks . the bbc has not independently verified those reports and israel has not confirmed them . in an apparent effort to prevent panic , a spokesman for the israeli army said there was no need for people to buy generators , gather food or withdraw money . syria ' s defence ministry said israeli aircraft targeted the iranian consulate building at about 17 : 00 local time ( 14 : 00 gmt ) on monday . syrian air defences shot down some of the missiles , but others made it through and " destroyed the entire building , killing and injuring everyone inside ", the ministry added . iran ' s revolutionary guards said that seven of its officers were killed in the strike , including brig - gen mohammad reza zahedi and brig - gen mohammad hadi haji - rahimi . photos and videos from the scene showed smoke rising from the remains of the collapsed building . hours after the strike , people in tehran burned israeli and us flags in protest . on the day after the attack , ayatollah khamenei said israel would " regret this crime ", while president ebrahim raisi insisted it would " not go unanswered ". israel and its closest ally , the us , have been anticipating an iranian attack ever since . in the wake of the attack , the israeli military said it did not comment on foreign media reports . but an unnamed senior israeli official told reuters news agency that those killed had " been behind many attacks on israeli and american assets and had plans for additional attacks ". they also insisted that the embassy " was not a target ". israel has acknowledged carrying out hundreds of strikes in recent years on targets in syria that it says are linked to iran and allied groups which are armed , funded and trained by the revolutionary guards . iran has said the guards were sent to syria to " advise " president bashar al - assad ' s forces in the country ' s civil war , but it has denied they have been involved in combat or established bases . israel ' s strikes have reportedly been stepped up since the start of the war in gaza in october last year , in response to cross - border attacks on northern israel by hezbollah and other iran - backed groups in lebanon and syria . iran has avoided direct confrontation with israel during the conflict so far , but monday ' s attack is seen as a serious escalation .