prime minister benjamin netanyahu has said israel will launch an invasion of the southern gaza city of rafah regardless of truce talks with hamas . it comes amid ongoing attempts to try to reach an agreement for a ceasefire and hostage releases . but at a meeting of hostages ' relatives , mr netanyahu said he would invade " with or without " a deal . his comments follow renewed warnings by the us against a rafah invasion unless civilians were properly protected . in a phone call with mr netanyahu on sunday , us president joe biden " reiterated his clear position " on rafah , a white house statement said . mr biden has previously described an invasion of rafah as a " red line ". on tuesday , un secretary general antonio guterres said an assault on rafah would be an " unbearable escalation ", appealing for " all those with influence over israel to do everything in their power to prevent it ". more than half of gaza ' s 2 . 5m population is in rafah , having fled there to escape fighting in other parts of the territory . conditions in the overcrowded city are dire , and displaced people there have spoken of a lack of food , water and medication . the west bank - based palestinian president mahmoud abbas said on monday that an invasion of rafah would be the " biggest catastrophe in the palestinian people ' s history ". israeli sources told the reuters news agency on monday that plans to attack rafah would be shelved in favour of a " sustained period of calm " if a ceasefire agreement between hamas and israeli was reached . days earlier , israel ' s foreign minister israel katz told israeli channel 12 television that " if there will be a deal , we will suspend the [ rafah ] operation ". but on tuesday mr netanyahu insisted that the war would continue until israel had achieved all of its objectives in rafah . " the idea that we will halt the war before achieving all of its goals is out of the question ," he said . " we will enter rafah and we will eliminate the hamas battalions there with or without a deal , in order to achieve the total victory ," according to a statement issued by mr netanyahu ' s office . it said the families urged the prime minister and his national security adviser , tzachi hanegbi , to continue the war and ignore mounting international pressure . many hostage families however have publicly demonstrated for the government to agree to a deal to return their loved ones at any cost . about 130 hostages from among 253 kidnapped by hamas during its unprecedented attack on israel on 7 october remain unaccounted for . at least 34 of them are presumed dead . the rest have been released or rescued . indirect talks have been at an impasse for weeks , although the us secretary of state , antony blinken , said on monday that he hoped hamas would accept what he has called israel ' s " extraordinarily generous offer " for a truce . meanwhile the head of the un ' s refugee organisation has warned that the looming invasion was causing people in rafah to live in a state of " constant traumatic stress disorder ". " people have not yet been asked to evacuate from rafah , but there is a sense that if there is no deal this week that could happen ," philippe lazzarini told reporters . " my colleagues on the ground are describing constant state of trauma among the people ." mr netanyahu also denounced as " a scandal on a historical scale " recent reports , citing israeli officials , that the international criminal court ( icc ) at the hague could be preparing to issue arrest warrants for israeli government leaders and military commanders on charges related to the war . " i want to make one thing clear : no decision , neither in the hague nor anywhere else , will harm our determination to achieve all the goals of the war ," the prime minister said . " israel expects the leaders of the free world to come out strongly against this scandalous step , a step that will harm the self - defence capacity not only of the state of israel , but of all democracies in the world ." there has been no announcement from icc prosecutor karim kahn kc . however , his office has been formally investigating alleged war crimes in the israeli - occupied west bank , east jerusalem and gaza strip since june 2014 , and mr khan has confirmed that the investigation will cover the 7 october attack and the ensuing war . israel has never ratified the rome statute , the icc ' s founding treaty , and mr netanyahu insisted that the icc had " no authority " over the country . however , the icc ruled in 2015 that it had jurisdiction because the palestinians had ratified the treaty . white house press secretary karine jean - pierre said on monday that the us - which has also not ratified the rome statute - did not believe the court has jurisdiction and did not support the investigation .