the israeli military says it has taken “ operational control ” over eastern areas of bureij refugee camp and the town of deir al - balah in central gaza , as dozens of palestinians were reported killed . on wednesday morning , the military said troops backed by air strikes had begun an operation against “ terrorists and terrorist infrastructure above and below ground ". residents reported intense bombardment and the charity médecins sans frontières said at least 70 dead people - the majority women and children - had been brought to a local hospital since tuesday . it came as us , egyptian and qatari mediators meet in doha and cairo to discuss how to finalise a new ceasefire and hostage release deal . the us said on tuesday it was still waiting for a response from hamas to what it described as an israeli proposal outlined by us president joe biden last week . qatar said it had delivered the plan to hamas representatives and noted that it was also still waiting for a clear position from the israeli government . hamas political leader ismail haniyeh said on wednesday the group would deal " seriously and positively " with a proposal based on an end to the war and a full israeli withdrawal from gaza . israel ' s prime minister has insisted he will not agree to a permanent ceasefire before hamas is defeated and the hostages it is holding are released . and on wednesday , defence minister yoav gallant declared that " all negotiations with hamas will be conducted under fire ". israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which around 1 , 200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage . at least 36 , 580 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . bureij is one of the smallest of gaza ’ s eight historic refugee camps . it covers an area of 0 . 5 sq km ( 0 . 2 sq miles ) and had 46 , 000 residents registered with the un agency for palestinian refugees ( unrwa ) before the war . the camp is just to the south of the wadi gaza riverbed and the idf ’ s “ central gaza strip corridor ” - a section of land controlled by israeli forces which runs east to west from the border with israel to the mediterranean sea , dividing gaza in two . the nuseirat and maghazi refugee camps are also located near bureij , while the town of deir al - balah is about 5km ( 3 miles ) to the south - west . the four areas are currently crowded with people displaced by fighting elsewhere , including many of the more than a million who have fled the southern city of rafah since the start of an israeli ground operation there a month ago . earlier this year , idf troops carried out a ground operation against hamas fighters in the camps of central gaza that lasted several weeks . on wednesday , the idf said the new " targeted " operation in bureij and eastern deir al - balah was aimed at dismantling " terrorist infrastructure located several kilometres away from the border with israel above and below ground ".“ the activity started with a series of aerial strikes on terror targets , including military compounds , weapons storage facilities , and underground infrastructure ," its statement added . " during the strikes , several hamas terrorists were eliminated .” later , the idf put out a new statement announcing that troops had “ gained operational control ” of eastern bureij and eastern deir al - balah . it added that they had “ eliminated terrorists ” in the areas , destroyed rocket and mortar launchers , and located several tunnel shafts . a man from bureij told bbc arabic ’ s gaza today programme that his family fled the camp as the israeli bombardment intensified on tuesday .“ we were stunned that the army was conducting a ground operation again in bureij ,” he said . “ we were struck by shells falling on us from all sides , landing on citizens ’ homes , on the streets ... which led to the killing of a number of citizens .”“ the situation in general is extremely difficult ,” he added . “ we left our homes in order to preserve our lives and the lives of our children .” a young woman said : “ fragments fell into our home and into some of the residential apartments in our building ... we survived because we all were on the lower floors .”“ we were in a residential building full of approximately 40 people , some of whom were residents of the building itself and others were people who were displaced from the north and the south , in rafah ... now where should we head to from bureij ?” on wednesday morning , palestinian news agency wafa cited medics and rescue workers as saying at least 11 people were killed in israeli air strikes on several homes in maghazi overnight . another two people were killed in a strike on a home near the entrance to bureij , while two more were killed by artillery fire in the abu al - ajen area , south - east of deir al - balah , it said . later , médecins sans frontières said its medical team on the ground had described the situation at deir al - balah ' s al - aqsa hospital - one of the only remaining functional health facilities in central gaza - as " apocalyptic ". the charity said women and children made up the majority of the 70 dead people and 300 wounded , brought to hospital over the past 24 hours , and that many patients were suffering from severe burns , shrapnel wounds , fractures and other traumatic injuries ." the odour of blood when i entered the emergency room [ this morning ] was just overwhelming . people are lying on the floor . people are lying outside ... bodies being brought in white plastic bags . the families standing over them and praying ," msf medical referent karin huster said in an audio message ." it ' s just an emotionally overwhelming situation . it ' s impossible for anyone to cope ." at the start of its operation in rafah on 6 may , the idf told civilians to evacuate to an “ expanded humanitarian area ” stretching from the coastal al - mawasi area to deir al - balah , where it said they would find tents , field hospitals and supplies . but unrwa warned on monday that space for displaced families in deir al - balah was “ running out , as people continue arriving hoping for safety where there is none ”.“ living conditions are not at all suitable for families and critical services , and supplies are limited ,” it said . the idf also said on wednesday that troops were continuing “ targeted operations ” in rafah . it added that they had “ located weapons and eliminated armed terrorists ”, without providing further details . residents told reuters that israeli tanks had mounted raids into the centre of rafah and deeper into the west before retreating to eastern and southern areas . as well as displacing civilians , the rafah operation has resulted in the amount of humanitarian aid entering gaza dropping by two - thirds , according to the un . egypt has closed the nearby rafah border crossing since israeli forces took control of the gazan side almost a month ago and the un has said it is too dangerous to reach the nearby kerem shalom crossing with israel .“ in gaza , delivering aid has become almost impossible ,” outgoing un humanitarian chief martin griffiths told reporters on tuesday . “ we need all border crossings open . we need safe and unimpeded access . we need to prioritize humanitarian aid .” he spoke after an independent group of experts warned in a report that it was “ possible , if not likely ” that famine was under way in northern gaza . however , the us - funded famine early warning systems network ( fews net ) said hostilities and access constraints had impeded the collection of data to prove that . a un - backed assessment estimated in march that 1 . 1 million people across gaza were facing catastrophic hunger and that famine was imminent in the north by may . israel disputed the report , saying it contained factual and methodological flaws .