the killing in gaza of seven aid workers , including three british nationals , in an israeli air strike is on many of wednesday ' s front pages . the mirror ' s headline is : " killed trying to feed starving kids ". the daily mail says two of the british victims , james henderson and john chapman , were former royal marines , and the other , james kirby , was a former soldier . the sun focuses on mr chapman , describing him as a " special boat service hero ". the guardian has a photo of the burned - out interior of one of the vehicles caught in the attack . it believes the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip " seems likely to worsen " in the wake of what happened . it says many aid organisations have already suspended their operations in the territory . the i says the uk is demanding answers from israel . the headline in the times is simply : " outcry at aid worker deaths ", while for the daily express it is : " three britons killed on gaza mercy mission ". according to the daily telegraph , the foreign office has been considering for weeks whether israel is failing to demonstrate a commitment to international law , and whether it should therefore stop selling arms to the country . the paper says there are emerging calls that - if legal advice finds israel is falling short of that requirement - intelligence sharing should be scaled back . an investigation by royal mail into reports that new barcoded postage stamps are wrongly showing as counterfeit also makes the front page of the telegraph . it says customers have complained about being forced to pay £ 5 penalties to collect their post , despite the stamps being bought directly from royal mail . the times reports that the number of police - enforced drug tests has risen tenfold in the past two years . the paper says figures due out later are expected to show 100 , 000 tests were carried out by officers , in the final three months of 2024 . it says home office data reveals the majority of tests come back positive , and cocaine is found in nine of 10 of them . the paper says ministers are planning to expand police powers to broaden testing further . the financial timesleads with a slump in electric car sales in the first three months of this year . the paper says the performance of the world ' s two leading producers of electric cars , tesla , and its chinese rival byd , have added to concerns about the slowing uptake of the technology . finally , many of the papers feature pictures of the 18 - carat gold toilet stolen from blenheim palace in oxfordshire in 2019 . james sheen , from wellingborough in northamptonshire , has pleaded guilty to stealing the loo which is worth £ 4 . 8m . the sun ' s headline is : " the great chain robbery ". sign up for our morning newsletter and get bbc news in your inbox .