israel ' s military says five soldiers have been killed by israeli tank fire in northern gaza , in one of the deadliest incidents of its kind since the war against hamas began in october . an initial probe found that two tanks fired at a building in jabalia refugee camp where the troops had gathered . troops went back into the area this week after previously pulling out , saying hamas had regrouped there . tens of thousands of palestinians have fled the fighting and bombardment . both the israeli military and hamas ' s military wing said on wednesday that battles in jabalia camp and the surrounding town of jabalia were intensifying . battles also raged around the southern city of rafah , from where nearly 600 , 000 people have fled since the start of an israeli operation 10 days ago . more than a million displaced people had been taking refuge there . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said five soldiers serving in the 202nd battalion of the paratroopers brigade were killed in jabalia camp on wednesday evening " as a result of fire by our forces ". two tanks in the area fired two shells at a building being used by the battalion ' s deputy commander , according to a statement . " from the initial investigation ... it appears that the tank fighters , from the ultra - orthodox paratrooper company hetz , identified a gun barrel coming out of one of the windows in the building , and directed each other to shoot at the building ," it said . seven other soldiers were wounded by the tank fire , three of them seriously . the deaths increased to 278 the number of israeli soldiers killed since the start of the ground offensive in gaza on 27 october . another 348 troops were among the 1 , 200 people killed in hamas ' s unprecedented cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , which triggered the war . some were also taken back to gaza as hostages . more than 35 , 270 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . according to the idf ' s website , 44 of the soldiers killed in gaza as of wednesday - 15 % of the total - died as a result of what it describes as " operational accidents ". twenty - two of them were killed by " friendly fire ", five died because of " firing irregularities ", and 17 as a result of " accidents ", including incidents involving weaponry and trampling . on thursday afternoon , official palestinian news agency wafa reported that four people , including a pregnant woman , had been killed in an israeli air strike on a house in the al - faluja area of jabalia camp . earlier , it said there had been intense strikes in the al - hoja street area , causing its " complete destruction ". hamas ' s military wing claimed on thursday that it had fired an anti - tank missile at an israeli troop carrier in the block 2 area of jabalia camp and targeted armoured bulldozers with explosive devices east of jabalia town . the idf ' s chief of staff , lt gen herzi halevi , told troops in gaza on tuesday that israeli forces were " striking widely and strongly " in jabalia . " we see there attempts [ by hamas ] to hold on and rebuild , therefore we need to deal with this again and prove that we will return each time ," he added . wafa also cited medical sources as saying that more than 30 civilians , including 10 children , had been killed in israeli air strikes on residential buildings in nearby gaza city . palestine post photojournalist mahmoud jahjouh and several members of his family were reportedly among the dead . the idf scaled down operations in jabalia , gaza city and the rest of the north in january after declaring that it had " dismantled " hamas ' s battalions there . but that left a power vacuum in which the group has been able to rebuild . an estimated 300 , 000 people trapped in the devastated region are also experiencing a " full - blown famine " due to a lack of aid deliveries , according to the head of the world food programme . the us announced on thursday that it had managed to anchor a floating pier in gaza as part of efforts to boost levels of humanitarian assistance . but the state department said the situation in gaza was continuing to deteriorate and urged israel to do more to provide sustained aid access to both southern and northern gaza . spokesman vedant patel said the flow of fuel aid into the territory through the rafah crossing from egypt had come " to a complete halt ". these comments were echoed by the un ' s aid chief , who told the reuters news agency that the humanitarian operation was " stuck ". " stocks of food which were in place already in southern gaza are running out . i think we ' re talking about almost none left ," said martin griffiths . meanwhile , in the south of gaza on thursday , fresh israeli air strikes killed at least five people in southern and central rafah , wafa reported . the idf has ordered the evacuation of a number of neighbourhoods since 6 may , when it began what it called " precise operations " against hamas in " specific areas of eastern rafah and the gazan side of the rafah crossing ". israel says it needs to send troops into the city because hamas ' s last remaining battalions are based there . but the un and western powers say an all - out assault could lead to mass civilian casualties and a humanitarian catastrophe . israel ' s defence minister said on thursday that the rafah operation would continue " as additional forces will enter ". " tunnels have already been destroyed by our forces and more tunnels will be destroyed soon . this activity will intensify ," he added . " we are wearing hamas down ." he spoke hours before a hearing at the international court of justice ( icj ), at which south africa asked judges to issue additional provisional measures against israel to halt its offensive in rafah . the hearing in the hague is part of a case accusing israel of carrying out genocide in gaza . israel has dismissed the allegation as baseless .