hundreds of people marched to the venue for the world athletics indoor championships in glasgow to protest against the conflict in gaza . pro - palestinian demonstrators gathered in the east end of the city at barrowland park . the march finished at the emirates arena where the championships are being held this weekend . scottish athletes laura muir and josh kerr are among those competing in finals on saturday . and middle - distance runner jemma reekie qualified fastest for the 800m final on sunday . activists have held demonstrations in cities and towns across scotland regularly since hostilities began in the middle east in october . the glasgow event was organised by a coalition of groups called the gaza genocide emergency committee . wael shawish , from the scottish palestine society , which is an affiliate of the committee , said the march called for a boycott of israel at global athletic events . he said : " we want to send a message to the authorities within the athletic federation that israel , based on what they are doing in gaza now , should not be allowed to take part in any athletic events until they start respecting international law and palestinian human rights ." the march follows prime minister rishi sunak ' s downing street speech on friday where he said islamists and the far - right were " two sides of the same extremist coin " who loathed britain . mr sunak also expressed concern about the regular protests taking place in response to the israel - gaza conflict . but mr shawish said : " we have been going every week since 8 october . " there have been no issues with security or violence or breaking any laws ." dr moira leng also attended the march for the glasgow healthcare for palestine vigil . she told bbc scotland : " we meet every single week as healthcare workers to remember our colleagues who have been killed , including four israeli healthcare workers , and to share their stories . " the community in glasgow is seeking to raise awareness of what ' s happening and the awful , awful oppression and killing . " my colleagues in gaza have sent me the most horrific pictures and first - hand stories of people so desperate for food that they ' re queuing up at 02 : 30 and they end up dead ." dr leng added the marches always left her with a sense of " solidarity and sadness ". she said : " i wanted to be here today to remember and bear witness and say this is not ok . " and i know the people of scotland have come out strongly and said this is not ok ." on friday labour lost the rochdale constituency in greater manchester to george galloway , leader of the workers party of britain . labour had withdrawn support for their candidate azhar ali following remarks widely alleged to be antisemitic . mr galloway has long campaigned on causes related to the middle east , including for palestinian rights . israel military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk and others - after its gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october . the group also took 253 people back to gaza as hostages . gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry says more than 30 , 000 people , including 21 , 000 children and women , have been killed in gaza since then . some 7 , 000 are also missing and at least 70 , 450 have been injured , according to the ministry .