us secretary of state antony blinken has suggested he will work with lawmakers on potential sanctions against the international criminal court as its prosecutor seeks arrest warrants for senior israeli officials . mr blinken told a congressional hearing he was " committed " to taking action against the " profoundly wrong - headed decision ". his comments come amid a republican push to impose sanctions on icc officials , which may see a vote as soon as this week . the united states is not a member of the court but has backed previous prosecutions , including the icc ' s arrest warrant for russian president vladimir putin over the war in ukraine . at a tuesday hearing of the senate foreign relations committee , james risch , its top republican , asked whether mr blinken would support legislation to address the icc " sticking its nose in the business of countries that have an independent , legitimate , democratic judicial system "." we want to work with you on a bipartisan basis to find an appropriate response . i ' m committed to doing that ," the secretary of state said . mr blinken said " there ' s no question we have to look at the appropriate steps to take to deal with , again , what is a profoundly wrong - headed decision ". the icc ' s chief prosecutor karim khan announced on monday that he had applied for arrest warrants against israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu and defence minister yoav gallant . mr khan is also seeking arrest warrants for three hamas officials - yahya sinwar , its leader in gaza , mohammed deif , the commander of its qassam brigades military wing , and ismail haniyeh , the head of its political bureau . us president joe biden said on monday it was " outrageous " to apply for arrest warrants . there was " no equivalence - none - between israel and hamas ", he added . mr blinken ' s remarks echoed the broader pushback in washington over the court ' s decision . at least two measures imposing sanctions on the icc had already been introduced in congress as the court ramped up its inquiry into israel ' s handling of the war in gaza . support on capitol hill appears to be coalescing around a bill launched earlier this month by texas republican chip roy . the illegitimate court counteraction act would target icc officials involved with the case by blocking their entry to the us , revoking any current us visas they hold , and prohibiting them from any property transactions within the country - unless the court ceases its cases against " protected persons of the united states and its allies ". at least 37 lawmakers in the republican - led house are now co - sponsoring the legislation , including elise stefanik , the chamber ' s third highest - ranking republican . ms stefanik is fresh off a visit to israel , where she met with mr netanyahu , spoke at the knesset and met with the families of hostages trapped in gaza . the court " equivocates a peaceful nation protecting its right to exist with radical terror groups that commit genocide ", she told the bbc in a statement . andy barr of kentucky , another republican supporting the bill , said further pursuit of the icc ' s case against israel must " be met with the full force of our sanctions ". less clear , however , is whether democratic lawmakers will get behind the effort . the party ' s moderate and liberal wings have grappled with mr biden ' s israel policy for months , as young progressive voters have pushed the president to more sharply criticise the netanyahu government ' s operations in gaza . ohio ' s greg landsman , one of a few democrats who voted last week to reverse mr biden ' s pause on a weapons shipment to israel , told the bbc he hopes congress will issue a bipartisan rebuke of the icc " to send the strongest message possible "." the decision [ to seek arrest warrants ] will only further inflame tensions and divisions , embolden anti - israel conspiracies , and ultimately , it will undermine the credibility of the icc ," he said in a statement . republican house speaker mike johnson urged chuck schumer , the senate ' s top democrat , to sign a letter on tuesday inviting mr netanyahu to address a joint meeting of congress . in march , mr schumer called for new elections in israel but he described the icc ' s case on monday as " reprehensible ". sen chris coons , a democrat from delaware and member of the senate foreign relations committee , told the bbc that he was unsure about moves to sanction icc officials ." i ' m not there yet imposing sanctions on the icc , as opposed to looking to see whether the off ramp of a ruling by the judges of the icc that they ' re not going to proceed with warrants is something i think may come in the next couple of days ," the democrat said . but mr coons added that he is discussing taking action with his committee colleagues from both parties . but some left - wing democrats have expressed their support for the icc ' s actions . minnesota congresswoman ilhan omar said the court ' s allegations are " significant " and the us must support its work as it has done on past occasions , including in the case of libya ." the application for arrest warrants is merely the beginning of a judicial process ," she wrote in a statement on monday ." the icc has been a functioning court – it has seen convictions , acquittals , and dismissals , as we would expect from an impartial and non - political judicial body ." it remains unclear whether any sanction efforts have yet gathered the support needed to advance through either the republican - led house or the democrat - controlled senate . white house press secretary karine jean - pierre told reporters tuesday that administration officials were discussing " next steps " with lawmakers . watching from across the world in russia , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told reporters that its adversary ' s " attitude and willingness to use sanctions methods even against the icc " was " more than curious ".