months of record - breaking rainfall are having a significant impact on the uk ' s supply of fresh vegetables , according to the national farmers ' union . some farmers said they had been unable to harvest vegetables from waterlogged fields , and unable to plant crops for the summer ahead . vegetable buyer kevin green said it had led to an unusually high quantity of produce being shipped and flown in to hull ' s priory fruit market from around the world , including carrots being imported from israel . the met office said rainfall in england over the past 18 months had been the highest since comparable data began in 1836 . mr green , who buys fruit and vegetables for the dennis butler wholesale business near hull , said : " it ' s been more testing and harder to source good quality carrots and parsnips because of all the water content in this produce . " we ' ve needed to go further afield . at the moment , we ' ve got israeli carrots here ." food producer richard beachall said it had been difficult to sow his fields with wheat at his yorkshire wolds farm because of floodwater ." it ' s not just the amount of rain we ' ve had ," he explained . " when it dries up you only need a couple of millimetres of rain and you are back to square one again ." the problem for many farmers is two - fold . vegetables are becoming water - logged and it has become difficult to drive heavy machinery for harvesting or planting onto the boggy fields . henry moreton , chairman of the national farmers ' union in lincolnshire , said 150 acres ( 60 hectares ) of his land had been flooded since early autumn , with some areas under as much as 5m ( 15ft ) of water . he estimated he had suffered six - figure losses , and seen his oilseed rape , winter wheat and barley crops decimated . mr moreton said : " we cannot afford to flood farmland as we do . 60 % of farmland in this country is on a flood plain . " we can ' t afford to lose that , we ' re not putting bread in baskets like that ." time is now running out for many farmers to sow crops for the summer harvest , which needs to happen in the weeks ahead if they are to succeed . for that to happen , water levels need to subside first , mr moreton added .