hundreds of gaza ' s water and sanitation facilities have been damaged or destroyed since israel began military action against hamas , satellite analysis by bbc verify has found . damage to a major supplies depot has also severely disrupted repairs . the lack of clean water and flows of untreated sewage pose a serious threat to health , say aid agencies . the israel defense forces told the bbc that hamas cynically exploits civilian infrastructure for terror purposes . the destruction comes despite israel ' s duty to protect critical infrastructure under the rules of war , unless there is evidence sites are being used for military reasons , say human rights lawyers . clean water has always been a limited resource in gaza and the territory has largely relied on a system of boreholes and desalination plants for its supply . our analysis found that more than half of these vital facilities have been damaged or destroyed since israel launched its retaliation in gaza after hamas attacked on 7 october . we also found that four of the six wastewater treatment plants - crucial to preventing the build - up of sewage and the spread of disease - have been damaged or destroyed . the two others have shut down because lack of fuel or other supplies , according to one aid agency . the plants were among more than 600 water and sanitation facilities that we analysed , using a list of locations provided by gaza ' s coastal municipalities water utility ( cmwu ). in one satellite image , of khan younis in the south of gaza , two damaged large water storage tanks can be seen . the destruction of water and sanitation facilities has led to " disastrous health consequences for the population ", said dr natalie roberts , executive director of medecins sans frontieres uk . " the rates of diarrhoeal disease have gone catastrophically high ," she said . in very severe cases , such disease can kill young children and the vulnerable . rates of hepatitis a - found in contaminated water and particularly dangerous for pregnant women - are also high , according to the charity . " this is killing people ," dr roberts said . there is a particular spike in disease in rafah in the south where many gazans have fled to , dr roberts said , and a risk of cholera . there has been widespread damage to buildings across gaza since hamas attacked israel on 7 october . according to the un , about 69 , 000 housing units have been destroyed and a further 290 , 000 damaged . homes are now " very unlikely " to have running water , according to aid workers we spoke to . to carry out this analysis we sought advice from experts at the un and human rights watch on the best approach . for each site , we sourced the most recent high resolution satellite imagery and compared each shot with an image taken prior to 7 october . we then marked a facility as destroyed or damaged if the closest structure to the given co - ordinates appeared to be reduced to rubble , partially collapsed , or showed other signs of damage . bbc verify has not distinguished between " destroyed " and " damaged " facilities . this is because without knowing the precise outline of each facility , we cannot say whether it has been partly damaged or completely destroyed . water wells usually consist of an underground borehole and electric pump , together with a small control room above ground . however , as the control room is not always visible or easily identifiable we had to rely on analysing the nearest visible buildings when assessing damage . of the 603 water facilities we analysed , 53 % appeared to have been damaged or destroyed since 7 october . a further 43 facilities were in areas that showed some damage or where solar panels had been removed , but we were unable to determine whether the water facility itself had been damaged so these were not included in our analysis . the latest available satellite images were acquired in march and april , and our analysis has been ongoing since april . the majority of sites identified as destroyed or damaged are in northern gaza or in the area around the southern city of khan younis . at one wastewater facility in bureij , in the centre of the strip , solar panels that power the plant had been obliterated and sewage treatment tanks appeared to have algae growing on the surface . not all damage is visible from satellite images , so our analysis may have missed some affected facilities . some sites also may not be fully operational due to a lack of fuel . for example , the unicef desalination plant in deir al - balah - one of three large seawater facilities in gaza - can only work at 30 % capacity because of lack of fuel , unicef told the bbc . with most gazans now displaced from their homes , and living in tented camps , the build - up of sewage in the streets is even more of a threat . " the pumps for sewage are not operating and the streets are flooded [ with it ]," said muhammad atallah , who works for the palestinian centre for human rights . the conflict has already made water facility repair difficult for gaza ' s water authority , but a strike on a key maintenance warehouse has made it harder still . the building , in the neighbourhood of al - mawasi , was severely damaged in a missile strike on 21 january . four people died and 20 others were injured , according to the cmwu . monther shoblaq , the director general of cmwu , told the bbc this warehouse , which acted as a depot for both the cmwu and unicef , contained more than 2 , 000 items used for maintenance , and was the heart of the water and sanitation services in gaza . its destruction has severely limited cmwu ' s ability to repair and maintain vital facilities such as water pipelines , he said . the idf said the warehouse was not targeted , but that hamas terrorists operating nearby were struck and " it is possible that parts of the warehouse suffered damage as a result of the strike ". we gave the idf a sample of five other damaged or destroyed water sites from our analysis . in one case , the idf denied there had been an air strike , in the four other cases it said hamas fighters or sites were the actual targets . " hamas stores its weapons and ammunition within these civilian structures , constructs terror infrastructure beneath them , and from them , launches its attacks … the idf is locating and destroying these terror infrastructures , which have been discovered , among other places , in and near the water facilities in question ." leila sadat , a former special adviser on crimes against humanity at the international criminal court , told the bbc that facilities critical to the survival of civilians should be protected unless a military body has some concrete evidence to suggest otherwise . to assess war actions in terms of legality , you need to consider " the pattern " of those actions , she said . " you can ' t just look strike by strike … [ t ] hey [ the idf ] have hit water pipes , tanks , reservoirs , and infrastructure ," she said . " to take out over half of water and sanitation would be very difficult without intentionally doing so . so the pattern is evidence of either a reckless approach to civilian objects or the intentional destruction of them ; these were not all mistakes ," she added . in response to our findings , sara elizabeth dill , an international criminal and human rights lawyer , said : " what we are seeing is essentially siege warfare and the total destruction of gaza , without regard for human life or human decency , or any attempts to comply with international law ." additional reporting by erwan rivault , joshua cheetham , benedict garman and deena easa what do you want bbc verify to investigate ?