the first maritime humanitarian aid shipment to gaza has been unloaded on to the shore . the us charity behind the mission , world central kitchen ( wck ), is carrying out the mission in co - operation with the united arab emirates . the shipment contained 200 tonnes of food desperately needed for gaza , which the un says is on the brink of famine . aid agencies have accused israel of impeding aid deliveries , a charge vehemently denied by israeli officials . they say israel is allowing aid through two crossings in the south and has blamed aid agencies of logistical failures . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . more than 31 , 400 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says . saturday ' s shipment arrived on board spanish charity ship open arms . its cargo includes beans , carrots , canned tuna , chickpeas , canned corn , parboiled rice , flour , oil , salt and pallets of dates , which hold spiritual significance during ramadan . it had been checked by israeli officials in port in cyprus . it marks the start of a trial to see if the sea route would be more effective than air and land deliveries . aid agencies have repeatedly warned that no method of relief is as effective as delivery by land , but they say israeli restrictions mean a fraction of what is needed is getting in . in a statement , wck said : " all cargo was offloaded and is being readied for distribution in gaza ." teams worked through the night to get the aid on to dry land . gaza has no functioning port , so a makeshift jetty stemming from the shoreline was built by wck ' s team using rubble from destroyed buildings . however , there are few details on how the aid distribution will work , with un relief agencies having described huge obstacles to getting relief supplies to those in need . earlier , wck ' s founder , celebrity chef josé andrés , wrote on x ( formerly twitter ) that all the food aid from the barge had been loaded into 12 lorries . " we did it !" he wrote , adding that this was a test to see if they could bring even more aid in the next shipment - up to " thousands of tons a week ". in a statement , the israel defense forces ( idf ) said troops had been deployed to secure the shoreline . this delivery has been highly anticipated since the ship set off from the port of larnaca on tuesday . cypriot president nikos christodoulides told journalists : " the first ship has started its return to cyprus , and we are ready to dispatch the second ship ." the second cargo vessel is at larnaca ' s port awaiting a signal to sail with 240 tons of aid including bulk products . wck said in addition it would carry two forklifts and a crane to help with future maritime deliveries to gaza . if this sea mission is deemed a success , other aid ships will likely follow as part of an international effort to get more aid into gaza . the ships would use a newly opened sea route to travel directly to the region . separately , the us is planning to build its own floating dock off the coast to boost sea deliveries . the white house says it could see two million meals a day enter gaza , but while a military ship is en route with equipment on board to build the dock , questions remain about the logistics of the plan . the world food programme had to temporarily pause its land deliveries after convoys came under gunfire and looting . and an air drop turned deadly last week when five people were reportedly killed when a parachute failed and they were hit by the aid package . the un has warned that famine is " almost inevitable " in gaza without urgent action , and the eu ' s foreign policy chief joseph borrell has accused israel of creating a " manmade " disaster and using starvation as a weapon of war . the israeli army has continued its attacks across the gaza strip with reports of at least 36 people killed after a house near the nuseirat refugee camp in central gaza was struck . it comes as israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu approved plans for an assault on the southern city of rafah , which is sheltering more than a million displaced people . negotiations for a ceasefire in gaza are due to resume on sunday . on friday , israel dismissed hamas ' s latest proposal . hamas said it gave mediators a " comprehensive vision " of a truce , but mr netanyahu called this " unrealistic ". israel ' s spy chief , david barnea , is expected to meet qatar ' s prime minister and egyptian officials in doha on sunday to iron out " the remaining gaps between israel and hamas ".