a security guard thrust open the door of antony blinken ' s armoured car and the us secretary of state strode out down a line of yellow barricades . " we ' re working to get them home ," he declared , gripping the hands of israeli protesters in tel aviv calling for a deal to release the hostages held by hamas . it was a striking moment but not altogether spontaneous . the street had by now been buzzing with security officials readying his route towards the protesters . those of us in the travelling press were told to expect the interaction in the 20 minutes or so leading up to it . it was firmly caught on camera . this was a strong message from america ' s top diplomat to both the israeli public and its prime minister - the us was committed , engaged and pushing everything to get a ceasefire - for - hostage - release deal over the line . in other words the message is : the us is trying to stop the war - albeit with firm conditions . washington has been under growing domestic and international pressure due to the unprecedented crisis unfolding in gaza and the catastrophically high number of civilians killed . president joe biden and mr blinken have spent weeks now publicly ramping up pressure on israel to surge more aid in , and they want to develop a plan to secure the territory ' s long - term future . but as the crisis deepens , the limits of american influence have become increasingly clear . just hours before the moment filmed at the barricades , the us had resorted to a vote in the un security council to try to shape the actions of its ally . this was a sign of president biden ' s growing exasperation . the american - drafted text called on israel to surge more aid into gaza amid un warnings of imminent famine . it endorsed the current process mediated by qatar to get a ceasefire in return for the release of hostages by hamas . but it also warned israel against a military assault on the city of rafah , home to more than 1 . 4 million displaced palestinians , saying an offensive could violate international humanitarian law . the resolution failed . it was vetoed by russia and china . speaking at ben gurion airport on friday afternoon , mr blinken castigated those who voted it down . he implied they did so for reasons that had nothing to do with the substance , while also warning that a rafah offensive could leave israel without international support . " it risks killing more civilians , it risks wreaking greater havoc with the provision of humanitarian assistance , it risks further isolating israel around the world and jeopardising its long term security and standing ," he said . amid the growing rift between washington and the israeli leader , mr netanyahu struck back at mr blinken ' s assessment . " i told him i hope we ' ll do it with the support of the united states ," said the prime minister , " but if we have to , we ' ll do it alone ". this was a superpower being pushed back , despite its pressure . i ' ve seen the phenomenal force of us diplomacy at close quarters this week , trailing mr blinken on a time - zone shattering tour of europe , asia and ending in the middle east trying to stem the current crisis . to america ' s critics the paradox is clear : the us is sending weapons to a key ally , while at the same time urging it , without success , to do much more to alleviate the civilian suffering the military action has unleashed . a un - backed food security assessment this week said 1 . 1 million people in gaza were struggling with catastrophic hunger and starvation , adding that a man - made famine in the north was imminent between now and may . a growing number of us politicians have also spoken out . this week a group of democratic senators and nearly 70 former us officials , diplomats and military officers said president biden should consider cutting weapons supplies to israel if it keeps restricting humanitarian aid to gaza . israel blames the un for a failure to distribute supplies . the un categorically rejects this but israel insists that checkpoint restrictions and attacks on police securing aid convoys have been a necessary part of its campaign to eliminate hamas . i asked mr blinken in manilla whether the security vacuum in gaza was a harbinger of its future . how could he convince israel to accept the his proposals ? hamas could end the suffering tomorrow , he said , if it surrendered . but he reiterated that more humanitarian aid had to be allowed in . answering my question , he gave a us endorsement for the first time to a un - backed measure on hunger , saying " 100 % of the population in gaza is at severe levels of acute food insecurity . that ' s the first time an entire population has been so classified ." much of mr blinken ' s trip was crisis management . trying to get aid into gaza , get the hostages out and secure an end to the conflict , which the us says must ensure hamas ' s attack on israel on 7 october " can never happen again ". at the same time it is trying to shape a post - war future . washington wants the palestinian authority running gaza . it is the entity formed during the 1990s oslo accords and driven out of gaza by hamas in 2007 . the americans think they can patch together a grand bargain for the middle east . they want to pursue the long sought - after independent state for palestinians in the west bank , east jerusalem and gaza - albeit demilitarised - alongside a secure israel : the so - called two - state solution . gaza , rebuilt , would be governed by the internationally - backed palestinian authority , which is revitalised with money and security forces trained by arab states , including saudi arabia . added to this riyadh would recognise israel , a long - sought after goal for the israelis that would further integrate it into the region . in return the saudis would get advanced american weapons , a security pact with washington and a us - backed civilian nuclear power programme . it sounds impossibly ambitious , and perhaps it is . the americans are not naive about the chances of achieving the most illusive of goals in the middle east , amid some of the worst bloodshed in the region ' s modern history . but just as he did at the barricades , mr blinken thinks he can use a moment of crisis to grasp the initiative .