since the start of the israel - gaza war , following the hamas attack of 7 october , the overriding fear has been that the conflict could spill over into something even deadlier . the day after the hamas assault , lebanon ' s most powerful armed group hezbollah fired guided rockets and shells into israel in solidarity with hamas , prompting israeli drone and artillery retaliation . could israel , traumatised and vulnerable , with a prime minister fighting for political survival , decide the threat from across its northern border in lebanon needs to be neutralised ? the fear has been that benjamin netanyahu ' s government might be tempted into a second front in the war , against hezbollah - which , like hamas , is intent on destroying the jewish state . and if so , would it draw in iran , hezbollah ' s key patron in the region and sworn enemy of the us ? this week israel carried out more air strikes on the bekaa valley , deep into lebanon , taking the death toll in lebanon since the start of the conflict to more than 240 . in retaliation , hezbollah fired a barrage of 100 katyusha rockets on northern israel , its heaviest attack since the war began , with targets including israeli army bases in the golan heights . at least 17 israelis have been killed in attacks from lebanon and syria since october . the rockets this week prompted an angry post by israel ' s far - right national security minister itamar ben - gvir , addressed to the defence minister yoav gallant : " the military is your responsibility . what are you waiting for ? we have to start responding , attacking - war , now !" last month , chief of staff of the israel defence forces ( idf ) herzi halevi said : " we are now focusing on being prepared for war in the north ." for long , it seemed that the clashes on the border were carefully calibrated around unspoken red lines to avoid escalation into all - out war . hassan nasrallah , the leader of hezbollah , has not called for it . memories in lebanon are still fresh of the disastrous 2006 war with israel , which left more than 1 , 000 lebanese dead . and israel knows that hezbollah ' s military capability is far greater than that of hamas . a poll published in the country ' s maariv newspaper last month showed that 71 % of respondents favoured a large - scale military operation to drive hezbollah back . sarit zehavi lives close to the lebanese border and heads the alma research centre , which specialises on the threat there . she says hezbollah ' s aim is " to drag israel into war without actually initiating it ". but , she argues , israel is not looking for all - out confrontation . " israel ' s interest is to avoid full scale war - but achieve an improved security situation , while damaging hezbollah ' s brigades as much as possible . for israel , it is about choosing the least worst option : we understand the capability of hezbollah here and the cost of war ." she believes that hezbollah ' s use of rockets , which have a longer range than anti - tank missiles used previously by the group , is evidence of a shift in the group ' s military tactics and capability . " hezbollah takes into consideration the cost of a war , but they don ' t look into the near future - they look years ahead ." " they have already gained by forcing the evacuation of tens of thousands of israelis ," she adds - about 60 , 000 israelis living in communities close to the border have fled the fighting since october , the largest such displacement in israeli history . around 100 , 000 lebanese residents have also been moved from the other side of the border . to allow for the evacuees to return , israel wants to push hezbollah ' s forces back beyond the litani river , which marks a buffer zone of sorts between beirut and the israeli border . as part of the agreement to end the 2006 war , the area south of the litani was supposed to be clear of military presence except for that of the lebanese army and un forces - which hezbollah has violated . that ' s been part of discussions with amos hochstein , the us special envoy , who has been repeatedly dispatched to the region to avert an escalation . but a deal on hezbollah ' s withdrawal and disarmament remains elusive . so far , both benjamin netanyahu and hezbollah appear to be holding back from the precipice . the israeli army is already stretched in gaza , without opening a new front - and a new wave of international tension . and hezbollah is in reactive mode , opting more for a lower - level war of attrition . but the real risk is miscalculation , and caving into competing pressures . mr netanyahu is battered by the perception that he left his country vulnerable to the worst attack in its history , reviled by families of the hostages who want him to strike a deal to bring them back , and excoriated by the west over the mounting civilian casualties in gaza . the fear is that he may see expanding the fight in lebanon as key to his political survival - and that israel , in the wake of the 7 october attacks , would not countenance the continued threat on its northern front without taking military action . professor hilal khashan , from the american university in beirut , believes israel ' s relative restraint so far doesn ' t tell the true story . " netanyahu clearly wants war ," he says , pointing to israel ' s strikes on about 4 , 000 positions across lebanon since october . " he is finished politically and when the war stops , he will have to face his reckoning ," he says . " i don ' t think he ' ll give a damn about what the us or europe will think - he has made up his mind on hezbollah ." a further , and potentially more serious , unknown would be the response from iran , which relies on hezbollah , its proxy in lebanon , as a bulwark against israel . since the hamas attack , tehran has flexed its muscles across the middle east . iran - backed groups have hit us military bases in iraq and syria , and yemen ' s houthi rebels , aligned with iran , have launched countless strikes on ships in the red sea . it has so far stopped short of an unfettered war . but major israeli strikes on hezbollah could change tehran ' s calculus . in lebanon , there is little appetite for full conflict with israel , particularly among religious groups that don ' t belong to the shia branch of islam to which hezbollah belongs . " non - shias are almost unanimously opposed , and want hezbollah to disarm ," says professor khashan . but shias are unhappy about the fighting too , he says . " by and large , they don ' t want war either ." hassan nasrallah has said that he will not agree to a ceasefire with israel before there is a truce in gaza . he is reported to have told an iranian military leader last month that he did not want iran to get sucked into a war with israel or the united states - and that in the case of a full offensive with israel , hezbollah would fight on its own . still fear stalks those living on either side of a perilous border . " every night , i take the images of 7 october massacre with me to bed ," says sarit zehavi , " and every morning i wake and say ' ok , the terrorists didn ' t invade again last night '. it ' s an existential threat in the deepest possible way ."