four goals from martha thomas guided unbeaten scotland to a comprehensive victory over israel that maintains their lead at the top of group b2 in euro 2025 qualifying . the tottenham hotspur striker scored two either side of half - time in scotland ' s second meeting with israel in four days behind closed doors as pedro martinez losa ' s side secured a play - off spot . thomas slotted the opener in budapest , hungary , after another impressive start from the scots before heading in a second on the end of an outstanding team move . her team - mates could have chipped in with a few in between , but the striker settled any nerves with a third following good movement and added a fourth with her head . once the 28 - year - old was substituted , chelsea cornet took the reins and emphatically netted her first international goal with a smashed effort late on . serbia ' s impressive 4 - 0 away to slovakia later in the evening means they remain tied with the scots on points but behind on goal difference . friday nightâ €™ s first - half performance generated heaps of praise due to the forward - thinking play , dominance in the final third and , crucially , goals , which have been a bit sparse for scotland of late . there was hope that could be replicated in hungary and , after a slightly sticky start , scotland met expectations . thomas , who scored the fourth from the spot four days ago , eventually slotted home after breaking away from the defence , but the visitors arguably should have been out of sight already . on her 50th appearance , sophie howardâ €™ s header was cleared off the line , while claire emslie and kirsty hanson â €“ who both scored on friday â €“ smacked the woodwork and emslie was also denied by fortuna rubinâ €™ s strong foot . the scots didnâ €™ t let up and a sharp second seemed to be scored after a bit of a stramash in the six - yard - box . the ball appeared to be in , but the officials were unmoved and , with no goalline technology , play continued . the second did come , through thomas of course , and while she got the final nod , it was all about the well - worked build - up play from captain rachel corsieâ €™ s defence - splitting pass to lisa evansâ €™ pinpoint cross . thomas squandered a header , but her first international hat - trick was soon complete , courtesy of her knee . and why stop at three ? once again , her height proved too difficult to deal with and she rose for a fourth on her best afternoon in a scotland shirt . chances came and went for emslie and cornet too , but the rangers midfielder finally found her opportunity to seal an impressive win on the road for the scots . the double - header against israel sandwiched in the middle of the fixture list was always viewed as a must - win pair of games , with the hope of a good few goals too . scotland completed the task at hand with relative ease , barring a few scares on friday which were handled well by lee gibson in goal . martinez losaâ €™ s side looked back to their old selves . the confidence was no doubt knocked by the poor nations league campaign and the pinatar cup was not as successful on the pitch as some would have hoped . however , going undefeated in the first four group b2 games has allowed the scots to smile again and play some lovely stuff , despite missing key operators . across both games , the front three of hanson , thomas and emslie have particularly impressed , and their link - up play has been joyous . they seem settled and connected , which will be key if next summerâ €™ s euros are eventually reached . with erin cuthbert rested , captain corsie shifted into the midfield and made the position look her own . her natural instinct to sit deep allowed sam kerr to roam forward and influence the top end of the pitch alongside cornet . scotland head coach pedro martinez losa : " we are very happy with the performance , very proud of the team . it was a proper team performance with some circumstances to deal with throughout the game but that ' s what a team is there for ." we are more proactive in the final third and martha is a player who can be very effective from crosses and that ' s something we managed to do ." scotland have two games left in the group , away to slovakia on 12 july ( 18 : 00 bst ) before ending the campaign by hosting serbia four days later ( 18 : 00 ).