the us military will construct a port in gaza to get more humanitarian aid into the territory by sea , president joe biden has announced . the temporary port will increase the amount of humanitarian assistance to palestinians by " hundreds of additional truckloads " per day , officials say . mr biden added that no us troops would land in gaza . the uk said it would work with the us to set up a sea corridor . the un warns that a quarter of the population is on the brink of famine . the president made the official announcement during his state of the union address on thursday . he said the port , which will be built by the us military , will involve a temporary pier to transport supplies from ships at sea to the shore . it is not clear who will build the causeway or secure the aid on land , meaning crucial questions about whether the operation can succeed remain unanswered . the port will take " a number of weeks " to set up , officials have said , and will be able to receive large ships carrying food , water , medicine and temporary shelters . initial shipments will arrive via cyprus , where israeli security inspections will take place . " a temporary pier will enable a massive increase in the amount of humanitarian assistance getting into gaza every day ," president biden said . he added that israel must " do its part " by allowing more aid to enter into the territory and to " ensure that humanitarian workers aren ' t caught in the crossfire ". " humanitarian assistance cannot be a secondary consideration or a bargaining chip ." on friday , uk foreign secretary david cameron posted on x : " alongside the us , the uk and partners have announced we will open a maritime corridor to deliver aid directly to gaza ." israel ' s military launched an air and ground campaign in the territory after hamas ' s attacks on israel on 7 october , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 30 , 800 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . the conflict has created a growing humanitarian crisis . the world health organization ( who ) warned this week that children were dying of starvation in northern gaza , where an estimated 300 , 000 palestinians are living with little food or clean water . gaza has no deep water port and so the us has for weeks been looking at ways to get shiploads of aid in urgently , while the administration has publicly ramped up its pressure and increasingly shown in public its impatience with israel over the desperate situation on the ground . us officials told the bbc ' s us partner , cbs , that there are plans for the pier to be installed by an army unit called the 7th transportation brigade , based at fort story , virginia . the brigade is designed for rapid deployment , but the military ships have not yet left the us , the officials said . vice adm kevin donegan , who was formerly commander of the us navy ' s fifth fleet - the most senior us naval commander in the middle east - told bbc radio 4 ' s world tonight programme that the port plan was " absolutely executable ". however , he said delivering aid by land was still the most effective way , in terms of being able to get as many goods in as possible . vice adm donegan also cautioned that having " security and a good distribution network " would be critical for the safe delivery of aid from the port , referencing the more than 100 people who were killed trying to reach an aid convoy . last week , amid the growing desperation . palestinians said most were shot by israeli troops . the israeli military , which was overseeing the private aid deliveries , said most were killed in a stampede . aid lorries have been entering the south of gaza through the egyptian - controlled rafah crossing and the israeli - controlled kerem shalom . but the north , which was the focus of the first phase of the israeli ground offensive , has been largely cut off from assistance in recent months . on 20 february , the un ' s world food programme ( wfp ) said it was suspending food deliveries to northern gaza because its first aid convoys in three weeks had endured " complete chaos and violence due to the collapse of civil order ", including violent looting . the us and other nations have resorted to dropping aid in by air - but humanitarian organisations say that method is a last resort and can ' t meet the soaring need . an independent un expert on thursday accused israel of mounting " a starvation campaign against the palestinian people in gaza ". " the images of starvation in gaza are unbearable and you are doing nothing ," michael fakhri , un special rapporteur on the right to food , said in a speech to the un human rights council . yeela cytrin , a legal adviser at the israeli mission to the un , said " israel utterly rejects allegations that it is using starvation as a tool of war ", before walking out in protest . during his state of the union address , president biden also said that he was " working nonstop " to achieve an immediate six - week ceasefire - a deal he said would " get the hostages home and ease the intolerable humanitarian crisis , and build toward something more enduring ". a hamas delegation left talks in cairo without a deal for a ceasefire in gaza , but the armed group says indirect negotiations with israel are not over . it had been hoped that a 40 - day truce could be in place for the start of the islamic month of ramadan next week . but egyptian and qatari mediators have struggled to seal a deal that would see hamas free israeli hostages in exchange for palestinians held in israeli jails .