israeli forces have pulled out of jabalia in northern gaza , after a three - week offensive there which saw tens of thousands of civilians flee the area . the military said " hundreds of terrorists [ had been ] eliminated " and 10km ( 6 miles ) of tunnels destroyed during the operation . pictures from jabalia show widespread destruction , with multi - storey buildings reduced to rubble or bombed out shells . the israel defense forces ( idf ) had gone back into the city months after pulling out , saying that hamas was regrouping there . during the operation , the bodies of seven israelis killed during the hamas attack on israel on 7 october and taken to gaza were discovered and repatriated . the times of israel said idf officers had described the fighting in jabalia as some of the most intense of the war . the idf said hamas had " turned the civilian area into a fortified combat compound , fired towards the troops from sheltered areas and schools , and built an underground terrorist network from within civilian buildings ". it said it had destroyed rocket launchers " ready for use " and several weapons production sites . the idf ' s second ground operation in jabalia came four months after it had declared it had dismantled hamas ' s military capabilities in northern gaza . the war itself could go on for at least the rest of the year , a key aide to israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said on wednesday . meanwhile , the prospect of renewed ceasefire talks has further dimmed after hamas said on thursday that it would not negotiate " in light of [ israel ' s ] aggression , killing , siege , starvation and genocide of our people ". it said it had told mediators that it would be ready to reach " a complete agreement " if israel stopped the war . israel has said it will fight on until it has achieved its aims of destroying hamas and returning its hostages . the war began in october when hamas gunmen launched an unprecedented attack on israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 back to gaza as hostages . more than 36 , 000 people in gaza have been killed in the israeli offensive , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says .