a pensioner allegedly murdered by an islamic extremist died from a stab wound to his heart , a court has heard . terence carney , 70 , was out for his regular early morning walk when he was attacked by ahmed alid in hartlepool in october , teesside crown court heard . mr alid , a moroccan asylum seeker , denies murder and the attempted murder of his housemate . home office pathologist dr nigel cooper said mr carney was stabbed several times with at least moderate force . the court has heard mr alid lived with three other asylum seekers at a house on wharton street in hartlepool . at about 05 : 00 gmt on 15 october , he broke into the room of his sleeping housemate javed nouri and stabbed him six times , breaking a kitchen knife in the process . mr nouri fought back and mr alid fled into the streets with a second knife , prosecutors allege . he came across mr carney on raby road and attacked him , pushing him to the ground and repeatedly stabbing him , the court has heard . police responding to a 999 call from mr nouri ' s housemate found mr carney lying in the street and he was declared dead at the scene . dr cooper said mr carney ' s cause of death was " stab wounds to the chest ", in particular a 2in ( 5cm ) deep blow that punctured the heart . the pathologist said injuries had also been inflicted to the liver and a lung and the stabbing would have been done with at least moderate force . he said the stab wounds were consistent with having been caused by a kitchen knife with an 8in ( 20cm )- long blade found on mr alid when he was arrested . the court has heard mr alid followed an " extreme interpretation of islam " and objected to iranian mr nouri converting to christianity . jurors were shown police bodycam footage of his arrival at middlesbrough police station at about 06 : 30 on 15 october . as he was led from the police van , mr ahmed spoke for several minutes in arabic and , among religious rhetoric , said he was following allah and acting for gaza . he also said his hand was injured and if it was not for that he would have continued attacking people . as he was led to the custody desk to be checked in , he shouted " allahu akbar ", which means " god is greatest ", several times and resumed his religious speech . mr alid told police he carried out the two attacks in support of palestine and in protest of israel and the gaza conflict . in his 87 - minute - long interview conducted through an arabic translator , mr alid told detectives he was responsible for killing mr carney and the attempted murder of mr nouri , who he believed had died , adding he intended to " kill more people ". mr alid said the " whole issue " was the " independence of palestine " and " to have two dead victims [ was ] better than more ", adding israel had " killed a lot of children " so he " killed two old people ". he said mr carney was a " poor man " who had " committed no faults ", but he was killed because britain had " created " israel and " should make it leave ". he remained silent to a number of questions and at one point appeared to hold his breath and at another pointed his finger towards the ceiling , the court heard . mr alid later told police he swore by allah that if he had had a " machine gun " there would have been " thousands " of victims . mr alid also denies assaulting two female police officers at the end of his interview . in a statement read to the court , one of the detectives said mr alid had become " increasingly agitated and angry " during the interview and appeared to be directing his anger at the interpreter . due to his shouting the officers ended the interview , at which point mr alid stood up " while shouting in arabic ", the court heard . both officers pressed an urgent assistance button but that did not appear to work , the court heard , with mr alid positioning himself against the door as a barricade . the detective said mr alid then " lunged " at her and grabbed her in a " bear hug ", and she was only able to break free after they fell to the floor . other officers then arrived and restrained him , the court heard . the detective said she was physically uninjured but " quite shaken ", especially knowing what he had been accused of and admitted to in the interview . the second officer said she " panicked " as mr alid blocked the door and her " heart completely sank " when the emergency alarm failed to sound despite her pressing the button multiple times . mr alid ' s solicitor , who was also in the room , called 999 to say they were " stuck in a room with a terror suspect ", the court heard . the second officer said she felt " fortunate " the interview was being monitored by other officers on a different floor who ran to the interview room . the officer said the whole incident lasted three to four minutes " but felt much longer ". she said her left shoulder and hand were injured when she was pushed against a wall and when mr alid grabbed at her . the trial continues . follow bbc tees on facebook , x ( formerly twitter ), and instagram . send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .