gps is being blocked across swathes of israel in order to disrupt missiles and drones , as tensions rise with iran . iran has vowed to respond after a strike on its consulate building in syria on monday - which israel was widely believed to be behind - killed 13 people , including a senior general . the israel defense forces ( idf ) also announced it was halting all leave for soldiers serving with combat units . it comes a day after reservists were called up to bolster air defence units . israeli authorities seem to believe an iranian response is imminent and could come as soon as friday , which is quds day - or jerusalem day - the last friday in the muslim holy month of ramadan . it is a day which has frequently been used to stage pro - palestinian and anti - israel rallies , particularly in iran . on thursday , gps systems were being disrupted in central parts of israel , a defensive measure designed to interfere with weapons which rely on it to set their location . israeli citizens reported being unable to use location - based app services in major cities like tel aviv and jerusalem far from active combat zones . monitoring website gpsjam showed widespread interference with location signals across israel . a bbc producer said her gps had located her in cairo when she was in jerusalem , and other users have shared similar accounts on social media . idf spokesman rear adm daniel hagari confirmed the country is using gps blocking - which is sometimes referred to as " spoofing ". israelis have been urged to manually set their location on the app which issues alerts about incoming rocket attacks to ensure it remains accurate amid the gps interference , the times of israel reported . gps is already disrupted in northern israel , near the border with lebanon , where israel and the iranian - backed group hezbollah have exchanged fire almost daily for the last six months . separately , the idf has urged people not to panic buy . writing on x , formerly twitter , rear adm hagari said : " there is no need to buy generators , store food and withdraw money from atms . " as we have done until today , we will immediately update any change if it is in an official and orderly manner ." media outlets in israel reported some of the country ' s embassies had been placed on alert or evacuated over potential iranian attacks . the bbc has not independently verified those reports and israel has not confirmed them . israel has not commented on the targeting of a building on iran ' s diplomatic compound in damascus , the capital of syria , but has been blamed by the country ' s leader ayatollah ali khamenei . iran ' s president ebrahim raisi previously said the strike would " not go unanswered ", though it is unclear what actions iran could take in response . among the 13 people killed in the strike were seven officers in iran ' s revolutionary guards , including senior general mohammad reza zahedi and his deputy . zahedi is one of the most high - profile iranian figures believed to have been killed by israel in the country ' s long campaign of targeted assassinations . israel has previously acknowledged carrying out strikes in syria on targets it says are linked to iran or its allied armed groups . speaking at a meeting of the security cabinet on thursday , prime minister benjamin netanyahu said israel is " acting against iran and its proxies , defensively and offensively ". he continued : " we will know how to defend ourselves and we will act according to the simple principle of whoever harms us or plans to harm us , we will harm them ." meanwhile , israel continued to come under international pressure over the killing of seven aid workers operating in gaza on monday . the founder of the group whose workers were killed in apparent drone strikes said they had been targeted " systematically , car by car ". the deaths have prompted other aid groups to stop deliveries into northern gaza over fears for the safety of their staff . idf chief of general staff herzi halevi apologised and said the incident happened because of misidentification , calling it a " grave mistake ". us president joe biden told mr netanyahu the killing of the aid workers and overall humanitarian situation in gaza were " unacceptable ". mr biden urged the prime minister to agree to an immediate ceasefire and " made clear the need for israel to announce and implement a series of specific , concrete , and measurable steps to address civilian harm , humanitarian suffering , and the safety of aid workers ", adding that " us policy with respect to gaza will be determined by our assessment of israel ' s immediate action on these steps ".