most of the front pages focus on israel ' s possible response to iran ' s unprecedented attack on its territory . the times and the sun picture the launch of the first missile from iran , while the guardian shows an anti - missile system in operation in southern israel . the daily mail says israel was " reportedly pulled back from the brink of immediate retaliation " by us president joe biden . a uk government source tells the i that ministers are keen to see a de - escalation , but acknowledge that israel has a right to self - defence . the financial times quotes an israeli source as saying the decision facing israel ' s five - person war cabinet - including prime minister benjamin netanyahu - is whether to " go big " against iran , or to respond in a more measured way . in an editorial , the daily express says only a " devastating " response against iran will reduce the chances of further escalation . writing in the times , roger boyes says the geo - political cards have been reshuffled and the shadow war between the two countries is spilling out into the open . he says that israel ' s fightback cost it north of $ 1 billion (£ 805m ) and showed its reliance on its main security backers , for intelligence and missile defence . the sun says at least four raf " top guns " engaged in the biggest air fight since the falklands . the paper says typhoon fighters took out drones bound for israel , after scrambling from a military base in cyprus . the guardian says the uk ' s response was well - considered , with preparations going on for several days last week . the times says the ministry of defence has released few details about the latest engagement due to nervousness in government over the uk ' s involvement . but the paper says rishi sunak may give more information later today . the times also says it ' s seen leaked documents which reveal that britain has entered talks to replicate the rwanda scheme with armenia , ivory coast , costa rica and botswana . the paper says the countries were approached by government officials , despite concerns raised by the foreign office about each of them . the daily telegraph says it ' s seen another set of documents setting out how the uk ' s agreement with rwanda is designed to incentivise the country to take upwards of 30 , 000 migrants . the paper says that would cost the uk £ 5 billion over five years . the head of britain ' s biggest cancer charity tells the guardian that tobacco companies are lobbying mps and peers in an effort to derail rishi sunak ' s bid to phase out smoking . the legislation , which bars anyone born after 2009 from buying cigarettes , will be debated in the commons tomorrow . michelle mitchell from cancer uk hails the bill as " world - leading " but explains to the paper that industry figures are seeking to persuade politicians to back exemptions , including for cigars . the daily star says book boffins have triggered a tempest by suggesting william shakespeare could have been a woman . the paper says the london library is hosting a panel discussion - after the release of a book from an american literary critic on the matter . the times says one author has written to the library in condemnation - saying it shouldn ' t be promoting " a hoary conspiracy theory ". the library has not commented . sign up for our morning newsletter and get bbc news in your inbox .