more students are occupying their university campuses in the uk in protest against the war in gaza . pro - palestinian protesters in cities including manchester , newcastle and leeds have set up tents outside university buildings . students at goldsmiths , university of london , have occupied the library . the student protests in the uk come after more than 1 , 000 people were arrested after pro - palestinian protests on campuses across the us . while the number of students protesting in the uk is smaller than in the us , the number of universities seeing protests is growing . one camp , at warwick university , has been set up in the campus ' s piazza for a week . but others , including at sheffield and bristol , started on wednesday . protest organisers told bbc news they wanted their universities to divest from israel in response to its deadly military operation in the gaza strip . divestment means selling off stock in israeli companies or otherwise dropping financial ties . the prime minister ' s spokesman said police would " have our full support " if students in the uk tried to replicate protests at us universities . rishi sunak ' s spokesman said : " we ' ve always been clear that people have a right to peaceful and lawful protest - but clearly , people shouldn ' t abuse that right to intimidate others , cause unnecessary disruption ." palestine solidarity campaign youth and student campaigns officer stella swain said : " all the protests so far have been completely peaceful . " there is nothing to indicate that they wouldn ' t be ." and she hoped no politician , regardless of their views on the issue , would want to see police in the uk respond to protesters in the same way as officers in the us . on thursday , the union of jewish students said the encampments were creating a " hostile and toxic atmosphere " on campuses . " it is time that universities take their duty of care to jewish students seriously ," it added . student protesters rejected this characterisation of the demonstrations , telling bbc news jewish students were camping with them . samira , who asked for her surname to be withheld , said jewish students were " very much a part of " the occupation at her university , goldsmiths . " i ' m proud that there are jewish students in the occupation with me and on the marches in central london with me ," she said , adding the pro - palestinian movement supported " peace and justice ". manchester student sam , who also asked for his surname to be withheld , said their occupation had been co - organised with jewish students . students set up camp in brunswick park , near the university ' s campus , on wednesday . and sam said : " this encampment has been co - organised by jewish students . " and there are several jewish students who are here every day and staying every night ," he said . uk universities have in general supported the students ' right to free speech and to protest . goldsmiths said : " we recognise that people hold strong views over the war , and uphold their right to freely express themselves while being clear about the need to be respectful and within the law ." it was " in dialogue with students over these issues " and was funding scholarships for palestinian students . the university of manchester , meanwhile , said while it " fully recognises " the right to protest , " setting up camp in a city campus raises potential health and safety concerns , risks disruption to staff , students and our wider community , and ultimately is an unauthorised and unlawful use of the university ' s campus ". " we will do everything possible to maintain business as usual ," it added .