the world food programme ( wfp ) says its first attempt in two weeks to bring food aid to northern gaza was blocked by the israel defense forces ( idf ). the un agency says the convoy of 14 lorries was " turned back " at a checkpoint and was later looted by crowds of " desperate people ". the bbc has contacted the idf for comment . it comes a day after the world health organization ( who ) said children are dying of starvation in northern gaza . in a statement , the wfp said efforts to " deliver desperately needed food supplies " to the area resumed on tuesday " but were largely unsuccessful ". the agency says the convoy was turned back by the idf after a three - hour wait at the wadi gaza checkpoint . the trucks were then rerouted and " later stopped by a large crowd of desperate people who looted the food , taking around 200 tons from the trucks ", the wfp said . the bbc contacted the idf for comment , which directed any questions towards cogat , the israeli defence ministry body tasked with co - ordinating aid access in gaza . it was the wfp ' s first attempt to deliver supplies to northern gaza in a fortnight . on 20 february , the agency said it was suspending food deliveries to the area because its recent convoys had endured " complete chaos and violence due to the collapse of civil order ", including violent looting . last thursday , more than 100 palestinians were killed as crowds rushed to reach an aid convoy , operated by private contractors , that was being escorted by israeli forces west of gaza city . palestinian health officials said dozens were killed when israeli forces opened fire . israel ' s military said most died from either being trampled or run over by the aid lorries . it said soldiers near the convoy had fired towards people who approached them and who they considered a threat . carl skau , the wfp ' s deputy executive director , told turkey ' s anadolu news agency that the danger of such an incident happening was part of the reason the aid deliveries were put on hold two weeks ago . " we were criticized by everyone for pausing . but we did that because we were fearing what happened two days ago ; we are looking at ways to get back ," he said . meanwhile , the us says it airdropped 36 , 000 meals into northern gaza on tuesday in co - ordination with jordan - the second such joint mission in recent days . the un has warned that famine in gaza is " almost inevitable " without action , and the who says that children are dying of starvation in the north of the strip . a lack of food resulted in the deaths of 10 children and " severe levels of malnutrition ", while hospital buildings have been destroyed , the agency ' s chief said on monday . the hamas - run health ministry in gaza reported on sunday that at least 15 children had died from malnutrition and dehydration at the kamal adwan hospital . a sixteenth child died on sunday at a hospital in the southern city of rafah , the palestinian official news agency wafa reported on monday . a senior un aid official warned last week that at least 576 , 000 people across the gaza strip - one quarter of the population - faced catastrophic levels of food insecurity and one in six children under the age of two in the north were suffering from acute malnutrition . on tuesday , us president joe biden said there were " no excuses " for israel not to allow more aid into the territory . idf spokesman rear admiral daniel hagari said on sunday that they were facilitating aid convoys and airdrops to northern gaza " because we want humanitarian aid to reach gazan civilians in need ". the israeli military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk , us and others - after the group ' s gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 back to gaza as hostages . more than 30 , 600 people , mostly women and children , have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s health ministry .