the white house has warned israel that the us will not participate in any retaliatory strikes on iran , senior administration officials have said . over 300 drones and missiles were fired at israel overnight , which iran said was in response to an 1 april strike on its consulate in syria . almost all weapons were shot down by israeli , us and allied forces before they reached their targets . officials said joe biden urged israel to consider its response " carefully ". speaking to reporters on sunday , a senior administration official said that mr biden told israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu to " think very carefully and strategically " about how his forces replied to the unprecedented action , the first direct attack by iran on the country . the official added that the biden administration believes israel " got the best of it " in the exchange , which began when senior iranian military commanders were killed at an iranian consular building in syria . about 99 % of the missiles , drones and cruise missiles launched during iran ' s retaliatory operation were shot down or intercepted - which us officials point to as a sign of israeli military superiority over iran . us aircraft and naval vessels shot down dozens of iranian projectiles as the attack took place . more than 80 drones and at least six ballistic missiles were downed by us aircraft and vessels or by air defence forces over iraq . this includes seven drones and a ballistic missile as they prepared to launch from yemen , us central command ( centcom ) added in an update on sunday . a conversation took place between mr biden and mr netanyahu at a time " of heightened emotion " just after the attack , which included about 100 ballistic missiles simultaneously flying towards israel . during the call , the two leaders had a discussion " about how to slow things down and think through things ", with mr biden emphasising that israel has " gotten the best of it ". the official declined to say , however , whether the white house warned against a significant response , saying only that " it is a calculation the israelis have to make ". in a string of television appearances on us networks earlier in the day , national security spokesman john kirby repeatedly said that the us had made it clear to israel that it seeks to avoid a wider conflict . the senior administration said that the same message has been sent to iran through diplomatic channels . both mr kirby and the official said that the us would continue to defend israel , but has ruled out participating in any israeli response . the stance is one that has sparked criticism from some us lawmakers and former officials from both sides of the political spectrum . ohio republican representative mike turner , who serves as chair of the house intelligence committee , said that mr kirby ' s comments about de - escalating the conflict were " wrong ". " it is already escalating , and the administration needs to respond ," he said on nbc . and john bolton , who served as national security adviser under president donald trump , said the us should join israel if its chose to launch a retaliatory attack on iran ' s nuclear programme . " i think it [ israel ] can destroy or disable a very substantial part [ of the programme ], if not totally ," he told newsnation . " frankly , if israel is prepared to go after iran ' s nuclear programme , the united states should proudly join them ." in the wake of iran ' s attack on israel , mike johnson , the speaker of the house of representatives , said that the body would " try again " to pass military aid for israel . previous attempts to send more aid to israel have stalled amid democratic calls that the aid package should also include assistance for taiwan and ukraine . mick mulroy , a former deputy secretary of defence for the middle east , told the bbc that aid for israel should be passed " without delay ". " if it wasn ' t for us security assistance , we could be facing a major regional war ," he said . " that supplement and the ones for ukraine and taiwan are in our national security interest . it is not charity . it ' s part of the us national defence ."