israeli forces and palestinian groups say there have been intense battles in the northern gazan town of jabalia . israel ' s military said troops had killed " a large number of terrorists " in jabalia ' s refugee camp , while hamas said it had killed several soldiers . tens of thousands of civilians have fled jabalia since saturday , when the military said it would re - enter the area because hamas had regrouped there . fierce fighting is also continuing around the southern city of rafah . the un says almost 600 , 000 people taking refuge have been displaced since the start of an israeli ground operation in the city ' s eastern outskirts nine days ago , including 150 , 000 people in the past 48 hours . with tanks now pushing into built - up areas and the nearby border crossings closed or inaccessible , supplies and medical services are dwindling . us secretary of state antony blinken expressed deep concern about the impact of the israeli operation , saying there was an urgent need to restore the full operational capacity of the two rafah and kerem shalom crossings to make sure humanitarian assistance got into southern gaza . " what we don ' t want to see is a situation where we ' ve basically reversed what ' s happened in recent months - where assistance was working its way through in the south but very little was getting to the north ," he said . but israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu pushed back against criticism of the military ' s operation , saying : " the humanitarian catastrophe that has been spoken of has not been realised , nor will it ." israel launched a military campaign to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage . more than 35 , 230 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said in a statement on wednesday that troops had begun " an operation against terrorist operatives and infrastructure in the centre of jabalia camp " overnight . " over the past day , idf troops in the area have engaged in intense battles with dozens of terrorist cells and eliminated a large number of terrorists ," it added . hamas ' s military wing also reported battles inside jabalia camp on wednesday and said fighters had targeted israeli troops with anti - tank missiles and various other explosive devices . it claimed that a dozen soldiers had been killed in attacks on a bulldozer , a tank and a house in the block 4 area of the camp . the idf did not report any casualties . the hamas - affiliated safa news agency reported that air and artillery strikes had caused widespread destruction in areas where the troops had advanced . meanwhile , the official palestinian news agency , wafa , said four people were killed in an overnight israeli air strike on a house in jabalia town . wafa also said there had been violent shelling of the zeitoun neighbourhood , in eastern gaza city , from which israeli troops withdrew on wednesday following a separate six - day operation . the idf said the troops had " eliminated dozens of terrorists in encounters and airstrikes , destroyed terrorist infrastructure and located many weapons ". residents of zeitoun told bbc arabic ' s gaza today programme that many had been forced to flee because of the intensity of the bombardment and fighting . " the biggest problem we face in zeitoun is that no ambulance or civil defence [ rescue team ] gets here . so , if your son is injured , he will continue bleeding before your eyes until he dies ," said atef al - mashalti . " such a thing makes any father feel helpless . fear has taken hold of my son to the point that he has to repeat the shahadah [ the islamic declaration of faith ] in anticipation of death at any moment ." on tuesday night , gaza ' s hamas - run civil defence force said it had recovered the bodies of five people , including a woman and her child , in two israeli air strikes in sheikh radwan and another part of gaza city . and on wednesday afternoon , another strike in gaza city reportedly killed three people who had been among a group waiting outside a shop that provided an internet signal . the idf said aircraft had struck about 80 " terror targets " across gaza over the past day , including military compounds and weapons storage facilities . israel scaled down military operations in the north in january after declaring that it had " dismantled " hamas ' s battalions there . but that left a power vacuum in which the group has been able to rebuild . an estimated 300 , 000 people trapped in the devastated region are also experiencing a " full - blown famine " due to a lack of aid deliveries , according to the head of the world food programme . israel says it needs to send troops into rafah , in the south , because hamas ' s last remaining battalions are based there along with the group ' s leaders and surviving hostages . the un and western powers have warned that an all - out ground assault could lead to mass civilian casualties and a humanitarian catastrophe . the idf has ordered the evacuation of a number of neighbourhoods since 6 may , when it began what it called " precise operations in specific areas of eastern rafah and the gazan side of the rafah crossing ". on wednesday , a statement said troops had been targeting a hamas training compound , " eliminating terrorists in close - quarters combat " and locating weapons and " equipment intended to simulate that of the idf ". israeli troops reportedly advanced to within less than 1 . 6km ( 1 mile ) from the centre of rafah on tuesday , when an israeli soldier was killed in the south . the idf has told displaced residents to head towards an " expanded humanitarian area ", which stretches north from the coastal strip of al - mawasi to the town of deir al - balah , in gaza ' s middle area . hind khoudary , a palestinian journalist in deir al - balah , told the bbc that many of those who had rafah were now sheltering there . " unfortunately , the middle area is overcrowded with people . we ' re talking about a very small area that is supposed to be suitable for more than one million palestinians ," she said . " they also asked people to go to khan younis , but it is completely destroyed and ... people don ' t have access to basic needs , like water ." she also noted that some of those still in rafah could not afford to pay for a vehicle to leave or were waiting for the idf to tell them to evacuate . " people are tired . they have been displaced more than seven or eight times ... so the situation is deteriorating every single minute ," she warned .