hamas says it has launched a " big " rocket attack at the tel aviv area in central israel , several of which were intercepted by air defence systems , according to the israeli military . hours later , palestinian health and civilian officials said dozens of palestinians had been killed and injured in an israeli strike on an area in the southern gazan city of rafah , where displaced people were sheltering . many of the casualties were living in tents at the tal al - sultan camp , the palestinian red crescent society said , adding that the death toll was likely to rise . an official for the hamas - run media office said 30 people had been killed . in a statement , the israel defense forces ( idf ) confirmed they had carried out an air strike on " a hamas compound in rafah ," where " significant hamas terrorists were operating ". acknowledging reports of civilian casualties from a fire ignited by the strike , the army said the incident was " under review ". the hamas attack on tel aviv - the first time in nearly four months that the group has attacked central israel - came amid an ongoing israeli military operation in rafah , which has continued in defiance of a ruling from the un ' s top court . the barrage of up to eight rockets highlights the threat hamas still poses to people across israel , although there were no reports of injuries . it also illustrates the challenges the israeli army faces as it moves further into southern gaza to oust hamas from what it calls its “ last major stronghold ”. the rocket attack came ahead of further ceasefire negotiations between israel and hamas , which are expected to resume next week . the military wing of hamas , the izzedine al - qassam brigades , said it was in response to " the massacre of civilians ". but by briefly destabilising the relative normality the residents of tel aviv - the economic centre of israel - had been enjoying in recent months , hamas may be trying to show its strength ahead of the talks , or trying to derail them . air raid sirens also sounded in cities including herzliya and petah tikva . the idf said its iron dome anti - missile system had intercepted three of the eight projectiles . most of them landed in open areas , but photos published by israeli media appeared to show minor damage from shrapnel to a home in herzliya , where an elderly women lived with her caretaker . police said two people suffered light injuries . and in kfar saba , north of tel aviv , a rocket fell on a field , creating a large crater . later on sunday , sirens also rang out in several border villages in the south adjacent to gaza , including some where residents have returned to live since the hamas attack on 7 october . hamas did not confirm the rockets were launched from rafah , where fighting has been reported near the kuwaiti hospital . despite intense international concern , israel began its offensive in the southern gaza city about three weeks ago , vowing to destroy what it said were the last hamas battalions present there . but the latest rocket attacks are a reminder of hamas ’ s military capabilities after seven months of an offensive israel said aimed to eliminate the group . war cabinet minister benny gantz said the rocket launches showed the need for the military to push ahead with its assault . the un says more than 800 , 000 palestinians have fled rafah , a city on gaza ’ s southern edge . about 1 . 5 million had been sheltering there from the fighting elsewhere in gaza . the palestinian red crescent society said the area which was hit by the idf air strike had been designated for displaced people . but aid groups say that nowhere in gaza is safe for the territory ' s estimated two million civilians . they say some israeli strikes have hit civilians in areas previously designated by the idf as " humanitarian zones ". israel ' s military campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 others back to gaza as hostages . nearly 36 , 000 palestinians have been killed in the war since then , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry .