charlotte church says she has been " massively changed " by the war in gaza after taking part in pro - palestinian protests . church previously said she was " in no way antisemitic " after being criticised for a controversial chant . speaking ahead of the release of her new podcast , the welsh singer said she will always " stand up for palestine ". " i fight for life , i fight for the preciousness and sanctity of life in everything that i do ," she said . cardiff - born church told radio wales breakfast on wednesday : " i ' ve been massively changed by what ' s happening in palestine and i will forever be an advocate ." while the name palestine is sometimes affixed to the palestinian territories of gaza or the west bank , there is no independent state of palestine today . church said she was fighting " for the sanctity of life ", which included causes like the anti - austerity movement and climate justice as well as that of palestinians . " it benefits us individually to do this work as well because altruism is actually really , really good for us . so it ' s a win win , and i believe it ' s a deep responsibility too ," she added . church told the programme that her new podcast , kicking back with the cardiffians , will see her talk about being working class , " doing the survival dance " and reflecting the lives of normal people rather than the rich . however , she said she will also not shy away from the heavy issues impacting the world , having been involved in much political activism herself in recent years . church has been a vocal critic of the war in gaza , which followed a hamas attack on israel on 7 october and has seen thousands killed in the palestinian territory . on monday , three british aid workers , john chapman , 57 , james henderson , 33 , and james kirby , 47 , were among seven killed in an israeli strike in gaza . church previously faced a backlash after she led a 100 - strong choir in a rendition of from the river to the sea at a concert - a chant which critics say calls for the destruction of the state of israel . in response , she said : " i am fighting for the liberation of all people . i have a deep heart for all religions and all difference ... i am in no way antisemitic ."