gaza ' s two million people are experiencing " severe levels of acute food insecurity ", us secretary of state antony blinken has said . this was first time an entire population had been so classified , he said when questioned by the bbc about conditions in the territory . mr blinken called on israel to prioritise providing for those in need . un agencies have said north gaza could face famine by may without a pause in the fighting and a surge in aid . mr blinken ' s warning came during a trip to the philippines as us officials announced that he would travel to the middle east , his sixth trip to the region since october , as efforts to secure a ceasefire continue . israeli negotiators are due to begin talks in qatar on tuesday in a fresh attempt to agree a deal with hamas to halt the fighting , get humanitarian aid in , and israeli hostages out . the us is israel ' s closest ally and biggest provider of military aid . mr blinken ' s comments were among his strongest yet in setting out the scale of the humanitarian crisis in gaza . asked by the bbc whether the current conditions were a harbinger of the territory ' s future without an agreed governance or security plan , he said : " according to the most respected measure of these things , 100 % of the population in gaza is at severe levels of acute food insecurity . that ' s the first time an entire population has been so classified ." acute food insecurity is when a person ' s inability to consume adequate food puts their life or livelihood in immediate danger . if unaddressed , it leads to starvation . mr blinken added : " we also see again , according to in this case the united nations , 100 % - the totality of the population - is in need of humanitarian assistance ," he added . " compare that to sudan , about 80 % of the population there is in need of humanitarian assistance ; afghanistan , about 70 %. so , again , this only underscores both the urgency , the imperative , of making this the priority ." he once again called on hamas to lay down arms but said it was incumbent on israel to make it a priority to provide for those who desperately needed humanitarian assistance . asked about the numbers of journalists killed in gaza and lack of access to the territory for international reporters , mr blinken said that " as a matter of principle " journalists should have access wherever there is conflict so " the world can have knowledge ". he said the issue was something " we bring up in every instance ". later , the un human rights chief stressed that the catastrophic hunger in gaza was " human - made and ... entirely preventable ". volker türk put the blame firmly on what he called israel ' s " extensive restrictions on the entry and distribution of humanitarian aid and commercial goods , displacement of most of the population , as well as the destruction of crucial civilian infrastructure ". the restrictions , he warned , " may amount to the use of starvation as a method of war , which is a war crime ". israel ' s diplomatic mission to the un in geneva said mr türk was seeking to blame it for the situation in gaza and " completely absolve the responsibility of the un and hamas ". " israel is doing everything it can to flood gaza with aid , including by land air and sea ," it insisted . aid workers reject this , saying that much of the problem in the northern gaza is due to a collapse in security around aid convoys , after israel targeted police who were escorting them . israel has said police have been hit because its military is dismantling hamas . but the us has questioned this , saying such targeting makes aid distribution impossible and is counterproductive . meanwhile , the us state department has called on israel to permit philippe lazzarini , chief of the un ' s agency for palestinian refugees , entry into gaza after he was denied on monday . israel previously accused unrwa of supporting hamas , which the agency denied . but in january it sacked nine of 12 employees accused in an israeli document of playing a part in the 7 october attacks . us officials also announced on tuesday that mr blinken would make his latest trip to the region since hamas ' s attacks on israel on 7 october and the start of the war in gaza . it comes without a breakthrough so far on a ceasefire for hostage - release deal between israel and hamas . he will speak with saudi leaders in jeddah and then continue onto cairo to meet the egyptian leadership . a significant part of the talks will focus on arab support for a post - war plan to secure and govern gaza . the americans want rule by the palestinian authority , the post - oslo peace accords entity that lost control in gaza to hamas after elections and fighting 17 years ago . but the israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has repeatedly rejected the idea of pa rule there , one of many critical points of dispute over any so - called " day after plan " for gaza . mr blinken did not address a question about whether an agreed post - war plan for gaza could only move forward with a different israeli leader . on monday night , us president joe biden told mr netanyahu this his plan to push on with an offensive in rafah would be a " mistake ", with more than a million gazan civilians sheltering in the southern border town . in their first conversation in over a month , they also discussed a plan to send an israeli delegation to washington next week to discuss both the rafah plan and a new alternative approach to targeting hamas there without a major ground invasion .