the hamas - run health ministry in gaza says an israeli raid on a refugee camp - which led to the rescue of four hostages - killed 274 people , including children and other civilians . on saturday israel ' s forces , backed by air strikes , fought intense gun battles with hamas in and around the nuseirat refugee camp , freeing the captives . noa argamani , 26 , almog meir jan , 22 , andrei kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 , who were abducted from the nova music festival on 7 october have been returned to israel . the israeli military has estimated that fewer than 100 people died in the operation . but the latest figures from the hamas - run health ministry in gaza would , if confirmed , make it one of the deadliest days of the conflict so far . people living in the densely - populated area have described the terror of coming under intense bombardment and heavy gunfire . one man , abdel salam darwish , told the bbc he was in a market buying vegetables when he heard fighter jets from above and the sound of gunfire ." afterwards , people ' s bodies were in pieces , scattered in the streets , and blood stained the walls ," he said . the return of the hostages to their families has sparked celebration in israel and world leaders , including us president joe biden , have welcomed the news of their release . but there has been mounting criticism of the deadly cost of the operation inside gaza , with european union foreign affairs chief josep borrell saying he condemned it " in the strongest terms "." reports from gaza of another massacre of civilians are appalling ," he wrote on x . an israeli minister said that instead of condemning hamas for hiding behind civilians , the eu had condemned israel for saving its citizens . images from the nuseirat refugee camp area show intense bombardment and people mourning the dead . two hospitals in gaza , al - aqsa hospital and al - awda hospital , said they had counted 70 bodies between them . the hamas - run health ministry released names of 86 people out of the 274 palestinians it says were killed during the two - hour operation . previously , israel ' s military spokesman daniel hagari estimated there were fewer than 100 casualties in what was a " high - risk , complex mission " based on " precise intelligence ". defence minister yoav gallant said special forces operated " under heavy fire " when rescuing the hostages . one special forces officer was wounded and later died in hospital . videos from gaza taken in the aftermath of the raid show scenes of carnage . footage from the al - aqsa hospital shows numerous people with severe injuries laying on the ground , leaving barely any space on the blood - stained floor for doctors to move between patients . other video shows a frequent stream of new cases being driven in by car and ambulance and carried into the building . the director of the al - awda hospital in nuseirat told bbc arabic the number of dead coming to the hospital increased throughout saturday . dr marwan abu nasser also spoke about the lack of a morgue in the hospital to accommodate the bodies of those killed who had been taken to the hospital . one man , who said more than 40 members of his family have been killed since the conflict began in october , described to the bbc being in a house which was hit by a strike ." as soon as these children and women entered the house , the bombing attack took place , claiming the lives of all those inside it ," he said ," this home , which used to house approximately 30 people who then became 50 , was bombed ... only me , my father , my wife , and a young man survived ... we are the only survivors out of 50 people ." the bloodshed on the ground prompted a rare venting of criticism at hamas from people in gaza . hassan omar , 37 , said he lamented the unnecessary loss of lives in israeli strikes , telling the bbc : " for each israeli hostage they could have freed 80 palestinian prisoners and without any bloodshed - [ that ] is a million times better than losing 100 dead ." my message to hamas is stopping the loss is part of the gain , we should get rid of those who control us from qatar hotels .” the rescue of hostages came amid efforts for a ceasefire and hostage release deal between israel and hamas . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has been urged to reach an agreement but faces opposition from far - right allies who say military action is the only way to bring the hostages back . saturday ’ s operation is the most successful rescue of hostages by the israeli military in this war – and analysts say it could change the calculation of a prime minister who is under increasing pressure . in response to the military offensive in nuseirat , hamas political leader ismail haniyeh said israel could not force its choices on the group . he said the group would not agree to a ceasefire deal unless it achieved security for palestinians . during its 7 october attacks in southern israel hamas killed about 1 , 200 people and took some 251 people hostage . some 116 remain in the palestinian territory , including 41 the army says are dead . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . on saturday , the hamas - run health ministry said the death toll in gaza is now 37 , 084 people .