organisers of the eurovision song contest have said that abuse and harassment of artists over israel ' s participation in the competition is " unacceptable and totally unfair ". this year ' s competition will take place in sweden in may , amid calls for israel to be banned over the war in gaza . several contestants , including the uk ' s olly alexander , have rejected calls for them to boycott the show . and it has been reported that israel ' s eden golan has faced death threats . the 20 - year - old has received several messages directly to her instagram account , reported celebrity website walla celebs . the jerusalem post said the singer would arrive in malmo , sweden , with " three times " the usual number of security guards . in a statement , the european broadcasting union , which organises eurovision , acknowledged " the depth of feeling and the strong opinions that this year ' s eurovision song contest - set against the backdrop of a terrible war in the middle east - has provoked ". " while we strongly support freedom of speech and the right to express opinions in a democratic society , we firmly oppose any form of online abuse , hate speech , or harassment directed at our artists or any individuals associated with the contest ," the statement continued . jean philip de tender , deputy director general of the european broadcasting union , added that the decision to allow israel ' s participation was " the sole responsibility of the ebu ' s governing bodies and not that of the individual artists ". " we urge everyone to engage in respectful and constructive dialogue and support the artists who are working tirelessly - on what is a music and entertainment show - to share their music with the world ," he added . israel ' s public broadcaster , kan , is a member of the ebu , giving it the right to participate in the contest . organisers have resisted calls for it to be suspended , saying the show " is not a contest between governments ". however , the ebu did force israel to change the lyrics of golan ' s song october rain , after deciding the original was too political . the first version was widely considered to be a reference the 7 october hamas attacks on israel , with several lyrics paying tribute to the victims . kan initially refused to change the song , saying it would prefer to withdraw from the contest - but israel ' s president , isaac herzog , later called for " necessary adjustments " to ensure the country could participate . now renamed hurricane , the dramatic piano ballad is ninth favourite with bookmakers to win the competition . however , israel ' s participation is unlikely to go unremarked when the contest takes place next month . swedish police are preparing for multiple protests in malmo in the week of the competition , and nine competitors have called for " an immediate and lasting ceasefire " in gaza . the statement , signed by olly alexander , ireland ' s bambi thug and danish entrant saba , among others , came in response to calls for musicians to boycott the show . " we firmly believe in the unifying power of music , enabling people to transcend differences and foster meaningful conversations and connections ," the artists wrote . one person who has pulled out of the competition , however , is iceland ' s long - running commentator , gísli marteinn . the tv personality and former politician , who has helmed 15 editions of the song contest , announced his decision on instagram , citing the organisers ' " lack of reaction " to the situation in gaza . " for me , eurovision is about atmosphere and joy , and i feel neither in this year ' s competition ," he wrote . sweden won last year ' s eurovision song contest in liverpool , with pop star loreen taking home her second trophy for the stormy electro - ballad tattoo .