hundreds of students protesting the war in gaza have marched through oxford to deliver a list of demands . protest camps , described as " liberated zones ", have been set up near oxford university campuses . on wednesday , protesters hung a list of demands up at the gates of the sheldonian theatre for the vice chancellor . the university has previously expressed " profound sympathy for those suffering in gaza , israel and the west bank ". on the list of demands , protesters called for the university to disclose all finances , overhaul university investment policy , boycott " israeli genocide , apartheid and occupation " and stop banking with barclays . in a statement , the university of oxford previously said it was aware of the latest protests and its students and staff members had a " right to freedom of expression in the form of peaceful protests ". in the past week , pro - palestinian protesters have set up tents outside university buildings in cities including manchester , sheffield and newcastle as well as at goldsmiths , university of london . more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in israel ' s offensive in gaza , the hamas - run health ministry there says , the majority of them civilians . on thursday , the union of jewish students said the encampments were creating a " hostile and toxic atmosphere " on campuses and called on universities to " take their duty of care to jewish students seriously ". israel rejects accusations that it is engaging in genocidal acts in its campaign in gaza , and has insisted it has the right to defend itself following the armed incursion by hamas on 7 october . the leaders of 17 universities have now met the prime minister to discuss the protests and steps they should take to tackle antisemitism . it comes after prof dame sally mapstone , president of universities uk , said they " may need to take action " if protests against the israel - gaza war interfere with life on campus . the bbc has approached the university for an updated comment about the protest demands . follow bbc south on facebook , x , or instagram . send your story ideas to south . newsonline @ bbc . co . uk or via whatsapp on 0808 100 2240 .