an islamic extremist murdered a man in the street in protest against the israel and gaza conflict , a court has heard . ahmed alid , 45 , fatally stabbed terence carney , 70 , after " chancing " upon him in hartlepool in october , teesside crown court was told . mr alid denies murder and the attempted murder of his housemate . prosecutors said he wanted to kill people in support of palestine and to oppose israel . warning - this report contains distressing details the court heard mr alid was a moroccan asylum seeker living with three other men at a home in wharton terrace in hartlepool . in his opening speech , prosecutor jonathan sandiford kc said that several days before the killing , mr alid had been reported to cleveland police , a church and housing managers by one of his three housemates , javed nouri , because of his behaviour . the prosecutor said mr alid " followed an extreme interpretation of islam " and believed mr nouri , 31 at the time , was an " apostate ", or " someone who had denied their religion ", as he was converting to christianity , which meant he " deserved to die ". at about 05 : 00 bst on 15 october 2023 , mr alid " broke " into mr nouri ' s bedroom and started to stab him with a kitchen knife while shouting " allahu akbar ", or " god is greatest ", mr sandiford said . there was then a struggle in which mr nouri suffered six stab wounds , including deep injuries to his chest and mouth . mr sandiford said mr nouri described the attack , which left the bloodied knife broken and bent , as a " nightmare ". part of the violence was caught on a 999 call made by a housemate of the two men , which was played to jurors . in the recording , mr nouri could be heard screaming and mr alid repeatedly shouting " allahu akbar ", mr sandiford said . the caller said there was a " lot of blood " and there had been " fighting with a knife ", jurors heard . mr nouri was able to force mr alid out of the room , and the 45 - year - old accused fled the house armed with a second knife . mr sandiford said mr carney was out having a habitual walk in hartlepool when he was " chanced " upon by mr alid on avenue road at about 05 : 30 . jurors were shown cctv footage of the fatal attack on mr carney , in which the " defenceless " victim could be repeatedly heard shouting " no " as he lay on the ground while mr alid circled and stabbed him . police officers responding to the 999 call on wharton terrace found mr carney lying in the street but , despite their efforts , he died at about 06 : 00 . mr carney had suffered six stab wounds to his chest , abdomen and back , mr sandiford said . in his police interview , mr alid told officers he had " wanted to kill " the two men and would have " killed more people if he had been able to do so ", mr sandiford said . the prosecutor said mr alid claimed he wanted to kill people " because of the conflict in gaza " and his " desire that palestine would be free from the zionists , by which he meant the state of israel ". mr sandiford said mr alid , who at that time believed mr nouri had died as well , admitted both attacks and said he had " killed two adults because israel had killed innocent children ". he also said he if had a " machine gun and more weapons " he would have " killed more victims ", mr sandiford said . mr alid told police mr carney was an " innocent victim " who was killed " because britain had created the zionist entity ( israel ) and should make it leave ". he also said britain was " on the verge of an explosion " and there would be more attacks , adding israel " killed children and i killed an old man ", mr sandiford said . jurors were told mr alid ' s housemates noticed him taking an intense interest in the 7 october hamas attacks on israel and they were " frightened " of him , as he had taken to carrying a knife . after mr nouri ' s complaint on 9 october , housing officers warned mr alid about his actions , while the " police rightly or wrongly took the view the defendant had committed no offence " so " no further action was taken ", mr sandiford said . mr sandiford said the complaint was an additional motive for the attack on mr nouri . judge mrs justice cheema - grubb said it was " unlikely " mr alid would dispute stabbing the two men but she told jurors the " central issue " for them to decide would be what he intended . she said prosecutors had to prove mr alid intended to kill or cause really serious harm to mr carney and mr nouri . mr alid also denies two counts of assaulting an emergency worker , in which it is alleged he attacked two female police officers at the end of his interview . the trial continues . follow bbc tees on facebook , x ( formerly twitter ), and instagram . send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .