the united nations has revised down the figure it publishes for the proportion of women and children killed in gaza , leading to claims fewer palestinians have been killed since israel launched its offensive following the hamas attack of 7 october . on 6 may , the un said that 69 % of reported fatalities were women and children . two days later , it said this figure was 52 %. the overall number of reported deaths in gaza - which currently stands at more than 35 , 000 - has not changed , but the un now says incomplete information has led to the revision . the un says it is now relying on figures from the hamas - run health ministry in gaza , rather than from the hamas - run government media office ( gmo ). the israeli foreign minister highlighted the un ' s change , calling the lower reported death tolls for women and children " the miraculous resurrection of the dead in gaza " and accusing the un of relying on " fake data from a terrorist organisation ". the figures have been released in different ways by the two separate authorities - the gmo and the health ministry - and the un has now switched from quoting the former to the latter to break down demographic data . at the start of the war the health ministry only reported deaths for which details had been registered in hospitals , whereas from november , the gmo included an additional category of deaths recorded in " reliable media reports ". more recently the health ministry has included these media reports compiled by the gmo , along with an additional category of deaths recorded by family members by filling in an online form . gaza ' s health ministry is now therefore reporting these figures : some of these for which information is missing ( such as an id number or date of birth ) are included in the overall number of deaths in the health ministry figures , but are not broken down demographically . the number of women and children killed is deeply contested because it is often interpreted as an indication of the number of civilian deaths . in a recent interview , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said about 30 , 000 people had been killed in gaza , with 14 , 000 of them being " terrorists " and 16 , 000 civilians . he did not provide any evidence for those figures . keeping precise records of casualties during wartime is challenging , so it is therefore not unusual for the numbers reported to vary , according to prof erica charters who specialises in the study of war . the initial figure for how many people were killed in hamas ' s 7 october attacks was originally put at 1 , 400 by israeli authorities , but was later revised down to about 1 , 200 . at the time , the israeli authorities said the misidentification of some of the burnt bodies was the reason for the discrepancy . the gmo has consistently given a higher figure for the proportion of women and children in all fatalities than has the health ministry . on 6 may , the un reported 34 , 735 deaths - of which there were 9 , 500 women and 14 , 500 children , citing the gmo as its source . the two days later , the un released a further report , switching its sourcing to the health ministry . the result of this was that although the overall recorded death toll was almost unchanged ( 34 , 844 ), the number of registered deaths of women ( 4 . 959 ) and children ( 7 , 797 ) had both fallen significantly . this difference was because those individuals with incomplete information were not included in the demographic breakdown . the gmo says the proportion of women and children killed in the conflict is around 70 %. the un ' s latest report , citing health ministry data , says out of 24 , 686 fully identified fatalities , 52 % were women and children , 40 % were men , and 8 % were " elderly ", without specifying whether they were male or female . it isn ' t clear what age the report considers to be " elderly " and how it categorises children . we have done our own analysis of detailed data released by the health ministry , and also found that 52 % of the fatalities were listed as women and children ( anyone under 18 ). in addition , 43 % were men and another 5 % were " unknown " ( missing information such as an age or gender ). for the gmo ' s figure to be compatible with the health ministry ' s data , almost all of the 10 , 000 deaths not fully identified by the ministry would have to have been women and children . " it ' s not logically impossible ... but it really strains credibility ," says prof michael spagat , who specialises in examining death tolls in conflicts around the world . we asked the gmo why the proportion of women and children they have recorded as killed is so much higher than in the health ministry ' s data , but they did not provide a direct response to the discrepancy . we also approached the health ministry for comment . prof spagat also told the bbc that the death toll in gaza was " staggeringly high " given the war has only been going on for six months , noting that the verified hospital deaths still represent about 1 % of gaza ' s pre - war population of 2 . 4 million . asked by bbc verify why it made the change , the un said it used the gmo data for women and children killed because the health ministry had not been publishing these figures . " once the ministry of health in gaza published breakdowns that were more comprehensive , backed up by a list of names , the un reports reflected that data instead ," a un spokesman said . he added that in both cases , the figures were attributed to their source and a " clear note " was added making clear the un ' s " inability to presently provide an independent confirmation of the data ". the un has previously said that it has a " long - standing co - operation " with the gaza health ministry , and that its previous reporting has been considered credible and " well developed ". data analysis by rob england and daniel wainwright what do you want bbc verify to investigate ?