it was the third time they caught her . crouching in a shallow dip in the field , moran stella yanai knew this time was different . " i heard ' coo - coo !' and we raised our heads up - the terrorists were standing [ there ], smiling ," she said . " everyone started to run , i jumped and broke my leg , and they caught me ." warning : this article contains details some readers may find disturbing . moran had been desperately trying to hide in the sparse cover of a potato field , as hamas gunmen raided the site of the nova music festival , a few miles from the gaza border . hours earlier on 7 october , the gunmen had burst through gaza ' s perimeter fence , attacking israeli communities . moran had already been caught twice by groups of hamas followers , she said , but had talked her way out by insisting she was arab , and not jewish . the third time , her captors were different . " they didn ' t talk , they just grabbed me ," she remembered . " they started to throw me from one to the other , and put me in the car . two terrorists in the front , four in the backseat , three more in the [ boot ], and only me on top of everybody ." as they crossed the gaza border , moran glimpsed the crowd on the other side of the fence , before quickly closing her eyes . " it was like a bull being entered into a huge arena ," she told the bbc . " everybody ' s happy - the children , the women , the men . it was tons of people ." she felt the car stop , and the car door open . " i felt someone trying to pull my leg ... all you can think of at that point is : please let it end fast . one hit to the head , and i will not feel anything . if it ' s happening , make it fast ." but the car door closed again , and the vehicle began to move off , carrying moran with it . she says she later learned that the group holding her had sold her to hamas . it was the beginning of 54 days in captivity for moran . during that time , she was transferred between seven different locations , quickly learning strategies to survive . " you really need to protect your story ," she explained . " what happens in the first house stays there , and doesn ' t come with you to the second house [ or ] the third house ." each time , she said , it was important to pretend that everything in the previous location had been fine , and that her kidnappers had been her friends . to hint at anything sexual , she believes , would have led to the group killing both captor and captive . at one point , she was held with another woman , who was 18 years old and kidnapped while she was barefoot and still in her pyjamas . moran , who understands a little arabic , remembers overhearing their captors discuss who would take the women as their wives . she said they even found the younger woman ' s mother among the other hostages and brought her in , asking for permission to marry her daughter . " when you move from house to house , you need to be ' examined ' to see that you ' re not hiding something on you ," moran said , sarcasm tilting across her face . " it ' s a ' really necessary test ', as they explain it to you ." she looks away , the silence growing between us . " i always try to explain to people that ' rape ' is a really big word ," she said . " it ' s not only the act . even when a guy stands in front of your door , and you ' re sitting down , and he ' s staring at you for 10 minutes straight , five to six times a day , every day , for 54 days . trust me ; that ' s a rape ." asked whether she was the victim of sexual assault while held captive , moran says she was not , but that she has heard from other women hostages that they were raped while in gaza . she described being beaten up by her captors , and the mental terror of being powerless in a situation that could change in a second . one day , she said , they sat down to play cards with their captors . " i was so hungry , i was trying to make them laugh so they would bring us something to eat ," she remembered . "[ one of the captors ] was mocking me . i got angry and said something as a joke . he runs to the other room , comes back , and points a gun to my head , yelling at me , screaming that he will kill me , will blow my head off ." after 54 days in captivity , moran yanai was released in a ceasefire deal last november , in exchange for palestinian prisoners held in israel jails . her hamas captors filmed the handover , where she and other hostages were seen smiling and thanking their kidnappers before boarding the red cross bus out of gaza . many people remarked at the time that they seemed well and even happy . " they made us smile , and say thank you ," moran said . " nobody heard the whispers that i ' m saying to the boy next to me : hold on , five more minutes , don ' t start to cry now , stay smiling ." it ' s the first time in over an hour recounting her story that moran ' s composure fractures . her tears sudden , fast and silent . the moment she crossed the border to egypt , she says , was the moment she had waited all those weeks in captivity to cry . " we couldn ' t [ cry ] when they were dragging us into gaza , we couldn ' t do it in the houses , and that ' s the first thing i promised myself - that the minute i step into my country , i ' ll scream as loud as i can , because nobody will take my voice anymore ." israeli officials believe about 30 of the 133 hostages remaining in gaza are dead . hopes of another ceasefire deal to secure their release have dimmed . stories of the conditions - and sexual assaults - in captivity have gradually emerged from some of those already released . moran says she lost 12 % of her bodyweight , and her hair , during 54 days in gaza , and that her body was covered with scars . it is hard for her to imagine what it ' s like for the hostages still held there , five months on . " if this isn ' t solved , then no - one is free ," she said . " i can ' t go back to a daily routine ; i can ' t go back to anything ."