the family of a british man killed in an israeli air strike in gaza has paid tribute to his " larger than life presence ". james " jim " henderson , from cornwall , was among seven world central kitchen ( wck ) workers who died when their convoy was hit outside the deir al - balah warehouse in march . in a statement issued through devon and cornwall police , his family described mr henderson , 33 , as an " incredible man " who had " died doing something that mattered to him ". they said they would " never comprehend his loss " as the former royal marine had " so much more to achieve in his life ". police said his funeral would take place in truro , cornwall on 22 may . in a tribute , the family said : " it ' s not the size of the candle but the brightness of its flame that counts and this couldn ' t be more true than when we think about jim ." whilst he was taken from us far too soon , and with so much more to achieve in his life , we gain comfort in knowing that he lived every minute of his time on earth , to the fullest extent ." mr henderson had a strong passion for rugby and " followed his dreams " by joining the royal marines and seeing front - line action in afghanistan , while " people " were at the heart of everything he did and drove him to " be better ", his family said . the statement continued : " it was this drive that took him to gaza in support of world central kitchen , and those so badly affected by the conflict in the region ." whilst we will never comprehend his loss , we know that he died doing something that mattered to him , he was making a difference and for that , at least , we are grateful ." above all others , those that mattered most to jim were his fiancee jacqui , and his family . "' proud ' does not come close to expressing how we all feel for what jim achieved , and we know would have gone to achieve ." whilst mourning the loss of him , and what he would have undoubtedly continued to do with his life , we also reflect on his legacy and the many people who will continue to benefit from what he started ." it added : " we love him . we miss him . we celebrate his achievements ." we know that his flame will continue to burn brightly in each and every one of us as we look to a future without his larger than life presence in it ." the israel defence forces ( idf ) dismissed two officers and reprimanded three others over the incident , calling it a " serious mistake ". follow bbc news south west on x ( formerly twitter ), facebook and instagram . send your story ideas to spotlight @ bbc . co . uk .