a police officer who posted messages in support of hamas shortly after the 7 october attack on israel has been ordered to carry out unpaid community work . mohammed adil , 26 , shared two images in support of hamas on whatsapp weeks after the attack which killed about 1 , 200 people and saw 252 people taken hostage , westminster magistrates ' court heard . in may , adil , who is from bradford and worked in calderdale before he was suspended , admitted two terror offences . west yorkshire police said his actions were incompatible with being a police officer . messages adil shared on 31 october and 4 november displayed a hamas fighter wearing a headband , the court was told , along with quotes attributed to the group ' s military wing . what is hamas and why is it fighting with israel in gaza ? two of adil ' s colleagues reported the images after seeing them on the messaging app , the prosecution said . adil was arrested on 6 november and had his mobile seized , with the officer answering " no comment " to all questions during his police interview . natalie turner , mitigating , said prior internet searches conducted by adil reflected his " personal interest " in the conflict and not support for hamas , though he accepted this was the impression given by the images . adil was sentenced to an 18 - month community order , which included 160 hours of unpaid work . he was also ordered to pay £ 85 in costs and a £ 114 victim surcharge within 28 days . west yorkshire police said misconduct proceedings against adil would soon begin following the conclusion of the legal case . det supt tanya wilkins said : " it is unfortunate that the actions of one officer have the potential to cause significant damage to public trust ." i hope that the swift action taken in this case helps reassure the public how seriously this has been treated by police and others in the criminal justice system ." follow bbc yorkshire on facebook , x ( formerly twitter ) and instagram . send your story ideas to yorkslincs . news @ bbc . co . uk .