the us secretary of state hopes hamas will accept what he has called israel ' s " extraordinarily generous " offer for a gaza truce and hostage release deal . antony blinken was speaking as a hamas delegation discussed the new proposal with mediators from egypt and qatar . a source close to the talks told the bbc they were cautiously optimistic . the proposal includes a 40 - day truce in return for the release of hostages and the prospect of displaced families being allowed back to northern gaza . it reportedly also involves new wording on restoring calm meant to satisfy hamas ' s demand for a permanent ceasefire . the hamas delegation has now left cairo and will return with a written response to the proposal , egypt ' s state - affiliated al qahera tv said . the israeli government is coming under growing pressure from its global allies and the families of the hostages to agree a deal . israel launched a military campaign to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 34 , 480 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 of the hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . mediators from egypt , qatar and the us have been attempting for weeks to broker a new agreement that would secure another pause in the fighting and the release of the 133 hostages who israel says are still being held , at least 30 of whom are presumed dead . earlier this month , hamas rejected an israeli proposal for a six - week truce and the release of 40 women , children and elderly or sick hostages in exchange for hundreds of palestinian prisoners . hamas said it was sticking to its demands for a permanent ceasefire that would lead to a full withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza and the return of displaced palestinians to their homes . the source close to the talks in cairo told the bbc that the new proposal from israel was significantly different from previous offers . on saturday , the axios news website cited israeli officials as saying the proposal included a willingness for the return of people to northern gaza and the withdrawal of israeli troops from the east - west corridor that divides the territory and prevents freedom of movement . it also included a willingness to " discuss the establishment of a sustainable ceasefire as part of the implementation of the second phase of the deal ", the officials said . israeli officials and a diplomat meanwhile told the new york times and financial times on monday that israel was also prepared to reduce the number of hostages released during the first phase to 33 , down from 40 . hamas has only said publicly that it is studying the new israeli proposal , but an unnamed senior official told afp news agency on sunday that " the atmosphere is positive unless there are new israeli obstacles ". " there are no major issues in the observations and inquiries submitted by hamas regarding the contents [ of the proposal ]," they added . mr blinken also expressed optimism at a meeting of the world economic forum ( wef ) in riyadh , which was attended by several of his european and arab counterparts . " hamas has before it a proposal that is extraordinarily , extraordinarily generous , on the part of israel . and in this moment , the only thing standing between the people of gaza and a ceasefire is hamas ," he said . " they have to decide , and they have to decide quickly ... and i ' m hopeful that they will make the right decision ." egyptian foreign minister sameh shoukry , whose country is a mediator in the israel - hamas negotiations along with qatar , also said he was " hopeful ". " the proposal has taken into account the positions of both sides and has tried to extract moderation ," he said . " there are factors that will have an impact on both sides ' decisions , but i hope that all will rise to the occasion ." sunday ' s phone call between us president joe biden and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu is said to have focused on the negotiations . they also discussed the need to sustain a recent increase in aid reaching gaza and continued us opposition to a full - scale offensive on the southern city of rafah , where more than a million displaced people are sheltering . local medics and rescuers said at least 22 palestinians were killed in israeli air strikes on three homes in rafah overnight . " we demand the entire world calls for a lasting truce . this is enough ," a man called abu taha told afp at al - najjar hospital , as a crowd of relatives mourned over the shrouded bodies . there was no immediate comment on the reports from the israeli military . meanwhile , children in rafah told bbc arabic ' s gaza today radio programme that rising temperatures were making life unbearable in the thousands of tents and makeshift shelters erected there . " being inside the tent does not protect me from the intense heat ; it is as if i am standing directly under sun ' s rays ," said sarah abu amr , 11 . " there is no electricity to power fans or get cold water to ease the terrible effect of the heat , and there is no food , water , or anything at all to keep us hydrated ." last week , when temperatures reached 40c ( 104f ), a five - month - old girl reportedly died in a tent due to the extreme heat , according to the un . over the weekend , there were further indications from senior israeli generals that plans were being finalised for a major operation in rafah , where the military says hamas ' s remaining battalions and leaders are based . but mr blinken - who is due to fly from saudi arabia to jordan and israel - noted that the us had " not yet seen a plan that gives us confidence that civilians can be effectively protected ". palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas - a rival of hamas who is based in the occupied west bank - said on sunday that the us was the only country capable of preventing an assault on rafah , which he warned would cause " the biggest disaster in the history of the palestinian people ". israeli foreign minister , israel katz , said on sunday that israel ' s military would " suspend the operation " in rafah if a hostage release deal was agreed . but far - right finance minister bezalel smotrich warned mr netanyahu not to cancel the rafah assault , saying that if he failed to destroy hamas " the government headed by you will have no right to exist ".