a palestinian man has been arrested over the murder of a 14 - year - old israeli boy , whose disappearance from an outpost in the occupied west bank sparked a deadly rampage by settlers . benjamin achimeir went missing on 12 april after going to herd sheep near the palestinian village of mughayir . as the search went on , settlers torched homes in mughayir and shot a resident . achimeir ' s body was found a day later . the israeli military said he had been killed in a " terrorist attack ". at least four palestinians were killed as settler violence spread to nearby areas over the following days . in one incident a 17 - year - old boy , omar hamed , was killed after being hit by a bullet in the head in an attack by a group of 30 settlers who had been accompanied by israeli forces , palestinian officials said . it was not clear whether he was shot by israeli forces or settlers . on monday israel ' s shin bet security agency , israeli police and the israeli military said ahmed dawabsha , 21 , had been arrested overnight for benjamin achimeir ' s murder and had " linked himself to the attack ". ahmed dawabsha was from the village of duma , the statement said . the village - which like mughayir is located north of the city of ramallah - is where a settler murdered three members of a palestinian family in an arson attack in 2015 . in 2020 amiram ben uliel was convicted of three counts of murder for throwing a firebomb into the home of saad and riham dawabsha , killing them and their 18 - month - old son ali , and leaving four - year - old ahmed with severe injuries . however there was no known connection between the arrested man ahmed dawabsha and the victims of the arson , israeli media reported . around 700 , 000 israelis live in 160 settlements alongside 2 . 7 million palestinians in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem , according to the settlement watchdog peace now . the international community regards the settlements as illegal , although israel disputes this . there are also about 160 so - called outposts , or small settlements which have been built without official approval and are considered illegal under israeli law . however the israeli government has legalised some outposts , giving them the status of settlements - last year 15 outposts were officially recognised , according to the watchdog peace now , while settlers established a record 26 new outposts . rights groups say incidents of settler attacks , and alleged involvement of the security forces , are rarely fully investigated , with impunity virtually the norm . over the weekend israeli forces raided the nur shams refugee camp in the northern west bank city of tulkarm , with the israeli military saying on sunday that 14 palestinian fighters had been killed and nine israeli soldiers wounded in exchanges of fire . residents of nur shams have only identified five of those killed as fighters , reuters reported . meanwhile on sunday a palestinian volunteer paramedic was killed in the northern west bank while treating people who had been injured by israeli settlers , the palestinian red crescent ( prcs ) said . mohammed awad allan , 50 , was trying to treat people injured " by gunshots fired by israeli settlers ", the prcs said . some reports said awad allan had been shot by settlers , others said he was shot by israeli troops . the israeli military said its forces were sent to the village of as - sawiya to break up clashes . it confirmed an ambulance driver was killed , and that it was investigating . israeli forces also shot dead three people who they said had attacked troops in other parts of the west bank .