iran ' s brazen attack directly targeting israel on saturday means that the one thing president biden most feared and desperately sought to avert in the wake of the 7 october hamas attack has happened - an escalation of the conflict to the wider region . for the us president , the tightrope he was walking on the israel - gaza war has got even thinner , as he seeks to both de - escalate the situation and deter iran , while facing domestic pressure from both left and right over the relationship with israel . any ceasefire deal in gaza , meanwhile , hangs in the balance . just two weeks ago , it appeared that the us - israel relationship - once the closest of close allies - was in serious trouble . president biden was expressing not just frustration but also outright anger at the lack of humanitarian aid getting into gaza and the killing of seven aid workers in a strike by the israel defense forces . the level of disagreement was such that the administration made clear it could reconsider its stance towards israel , and possibly even withhold arms exports . but iran ' s action at the weekend seems to have changed all that . the barrage of more than 300 missiles and drones fired at israel prompted a highly successful , hand - in - glove military action by the us and israel to defend the country . the co - ordinated action has seemingly rekindled some of the old warmth . and the white house will now be hoping it can capitalise on that to influence israel ' s response . officials are not so naive as to think there will be no response at all , but they want it calibrated in such a way that it can be viewed as an act of restraint . but the weekend ' s joint military success also masks a fundamental and worrying change in the regional situation , according to former us envoy dennis ross , a 40 - year veteran of us diplomacy in the middle east . iran ' s direct retaliation against israeli territory for the targeting of its elite quds force officers in a strike on the iranian consulate in syria has " rewritten the rules " of the israel - iran relationship , he says , further destabilising an already precarious situation . iran has spent years building up proxy forces sworn to israel ' s destruction , while funding and arming palestinian groups including hamas , as well as the shia militant group hezbollah in lebanon . but saturday marked the first time since the islamic revolution in 1979 that iran has attempted to launch a direct attack on israel . and so , no matter how you spin the success of the military technology that effectively neutralised iran ' s actions , a rubicon has been crossed . that , says mr ross , means there was a " failure of deterrents " towards iran . mr biden now faces an uncomfortable paradox , he says . the president has to simultaneously lower the temperature with iran , but at the same time , make tehran understand there is a cost to its actions . in the wake of saturday ' s attack , the white house made clear it would not join any israeli military retaliation against iran , while asserting its commitment to israel ' s security remained " ironclad ". iran ' s direct involvement in the current war will also make reaching a ceasefire deal in gaza and the release of hostages kidnapped by hamas significantly harder . american diplomats have been working around the clock to get israel to agree to a six - week pause in fighting to allow for the release of both hostages from gaza and palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . the agreement would also facilitate the movement of desperately needed aid into gaza , where starvation is looming . before the weekend , they had israel ' s buy - in and the pressure was on hamas . all that is now in jeopardy as the world waits to see how israel will respond . the domestic complications for the president are meanwhile ever present . there ' s pressure from parts of the left to distance himself from israel ; and accusations from the right of weakness in not standing up to iran forcefully enough . " i understand that in an election year . one wants to keep things contained . it ' s perfectly understandable ," says mr ross , who played a key role in the middle east peace process in both the george hw bush and clinton administrations . " but by the same token , we have an iran that took a step that it hadn ' t taken before . and by taking that step it is showing a readiness to cross certain thresholds and the more they cross certain thresholds , they get more used to doing that . and the region becomes far more dangerous as a result ." all this of course is ripe with the potential for misunderstanding and miscalculation . one misstep could set off a chain reaction that could quickly spiral out of control . the region is a notorious tinderbox and could catch light even further at any time . the world is holding its breath .