ireland , norway , and spain have announced they will formally recognise a palestinian state from 28 may . spain and ireland said the decision was not against israel nor in favour of hamas , but rather in support of peace . israel reacted angrily , warning the move would mean more instability in the region and recalling its ambassadors to all three countries . both hamas and its rival , the palestinian authority , have welcomed the recognition . norway was first to make its announcement wednesday in a move co - ordinated with the other two countries . prime minister jonas gahr støre said in an address that the move was " in support of moderate forces that are on a retreating front in a protracted and cruel conflict ". " this is an investment in the only solution that can bring lasting peace in the middle east ," he added , referring to the so - called two - state solution which would see an israeli and a palestinian state existing peacefully next to each other . ireland and spain followed suit soon after . " today , we state clearly our unambiguous support for the equal right to security , dignity , and self - determination for the palestinian and israeli peoples ," irish foreign minister micheál martin said . the country ' s taoiseach ( prime minister ) simon harris later stressed that " hamas is not the palestinian people "." today ' s decision to recognise palestine is taken to help create a peaceful future ," he said . mr harris ' s comments were echoed by spanish prime minister pedro sanchez , who said the move was " not against israel , is not against the jews ". " it is not in favour of hamas , which is something that has been said . this recognition is not against anyone , it is in favour of peace and coexistence ." israel reacted to the announcements with fury . prime minister benjamin netanyahu denounced the move by ireland , norway and spain as a " reward for terrorism " and said it would not bring peace . foreign minister israel katz said he was ordering the immediate return of the israeli ambassadors to all three countries for " consultations ". " israel will not go over this in silence - there will be other serious consequences ," he said . mr katz also said the three countries ' ambassadors in israel will be summoned for " reprimand talks ", during which they will be shown a video of the abduction of female israeli soldiers on 7 october . hamas , which controls gaza and is currently at war with israel , said wednesday ' s announcements would be a " turning point in the international position on the palestinian issue ". in a statement to afp , bassem naim , a senior hamas figure , said the " brave resistance " of the palestinian people was behind the move . hamas ' s rival , the palestinian authority ( pa ) - which controls parts of the israeli - occupied west bank - said norway , spain and ireland had demonstrated their " unwavering commitment " to " delivering the long overdue justice to the palestinian people ". also on wednesday , the israeli military approved the return of israeli citizens to the sites of three settlements in the occupied west bank , which they had been banned from entering since 2005 . israel ' s parliament had voted to allow its citizens to return in march last year , but military permission was needed for the bill to be enforced . most of the international community considers the settlements illegal under international law , though israel disputes this . the issue of palestinian statehood has vexed the international community for decades . since the 7 october attacks , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has doubled down on his opposition to such a plan , saying the creation of a palestinian state would compromise israel ' s security . about 1 , 200 people were killed in the unprecedented attacks on 7 october , when hamas gunmen burst into israel . they took 252 others back to gaza as hostages . since then , more than 35 , 000 people , mostly civilians , have been killed in israel ' s gaza offensive , according to the hamas - run health ministry . most of the world already recognises the state of palestine . earlier this month , 143 of the 193 members of the united nations general assembly voted in favour of it joining the un , something only states can do . before wednesday ' s announcements , 17 european countries recognised the state of palestine and most of those took the decision in 1988 when they were part of the soviet bloc . most other european countries , and the us , still believe recognition should come only as part of a long - term two - state solution to the conflict . a white house spokesperson said us president joe biden was a " strong supporter " of the two - state solution , and believed " a palestinian state should be realised through direct negotiations , not through unilateral recognition ". slovenia and malta have also said recently that they were considering a formal recognition . norway ' s prime minister also said on wednesday that he hoped the recognition of palestinian statehood by the three countries would bring renewed momentum to the peace talks . long - running negotiations in cairo aimed at securing a truce and further hostage releases are currently stalled . meanwhile , the humanitarian situation in gaza continues to deteriorate . earlier this week , the un said food distribution in the southern gaza city of rafah had been suspended due to a lack of supplies and insecurity . the chief prosecutor of the international criminal court ( icc ) recently applied for arrest warrants for mr netanyahu and hamas ' s leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , for war crimes . both israel and hamas have condemned the move . israel says an offensive in rafah is needed to eliminate hamas but the international community has warned against it , saying it will greatly exacerbate the humanitarian crisis in gaza . correction 14 june 2024 : this article previously reported that before wednesday ' s announcements , nine european countries supported palestinian statehood . this has been amended to make clear that 17 european countries had recognised the state of palestine to this point .