this morning warning sirens sounded across northern israel as they do most days . the army said later that it was a false alarm . but for the people of israel it was a reminder - if one were needed - of just how fast and how easily iran could retaliate if it wanted to . for north of the border in lebanon lie some 150 , 000 missiles pointed at israel by the iranian - backed militia hezbollah . these are not basic rockets fired out of tubes but advanced , accurate and powerful missiles that could reach targets in israel within minutes . and they could be deployed on iran ' s instructions at a moment ' s notice . and yet despite the reported israeli retaliation against iran , the streets of jerusalem were calm , as people went about their business preparing for shabbat . joggers were out in force as usual on the beaches of tel aviv . the authorities said there was no change in advice to the public ; there were no instructions for people to head to shelters . this reflected the fact that israel ' s air strike on iran appeared initially to be limited in scope and scale . yes , israel had chosen to attack on the birthday of iran ' s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , who turned 85 today . but if the strike was against military targets that were perhaps associated with iran ' s attack on israel last weekend - such as an airbase or drone factory or missile storage facility - then that could be seen as the restrained response israel ' s western allies were looking for . diplomats in europe and the united states feared israel could respond with what is known locally as a " spectacular ", a strike perhaps that exceeded the scale of iran ' s last weekend that involved more than 300 drones and missiles . or perhaps that targeted iran ' s nuclear facilities . all of which could have triggered a similar iranian retaliation , risking all - out regional war . but instead israel appears to be sending a message to tehran that it can attack deep within iranian territory without restraint . in other words , israel can attack iran ' s nuclear facilities - not far from the reported location of the strike - but chose not to on this occasion . jonathan conricus , a former idf spokesman , said : " iran seeks to return to the shadows and is downplaying the israeli strike on the strategic city of isfahan , but i think they ' ve gotten the message : israel can penetrate iranian defences and strike wherever it wants ." by not publicly acknowledging responsibility for the strike - as is commonplace - israel ' s war cabinet may hope to make it more difficult for hardline members of the governing coalition to criticise the limited nature of the attack , thus avoiding a political row over passover . but that did not restrain some . israel ' s far - right national security minister , itamar ben gvir , said a few days ago he wanted israel to " go berserk " in response to iran ' s attack . this morning the minister - upon whose faction the prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , depends - seemed less than impressed . on x , the social media platform formerly known as twitter , he posted one word , best translated as : " lame ." israel ' s opposition leader , yair lapid , hit back hard at this , posting : " a security cabinet minister has never caused such heavy damage to the country ' s security , image and international standing . with an unforgivable , one word tweet ben gvir managed to ridicule and embarrass israel all the way from tehran to washington . any other prime minister would have thrown him out of the cabinet this morning ." there have been reports that some ultra - orthodox religious leaders had been cautioning the war cabinet about striking without us support , potentially giving mr netanyahu cover for a limited attack on iran . but if this strike is self - contained and not the start of a series of attacks , then some israelis will be unsatisfied . after iran ' s attack last weekend , i spoke to daniel greenzweig , 65 , a businessman working in the hi - tech sector , who told me : " we need to hit them and we need to hit them hard . they need to realise that that is not the kind of behaviour that can be tolerated . i am not recommending we destroy their nuclear facilities but , if they did , i wouldn ' t have a problem with it ." but not all israelis share that view . in fact , people have appeared divided over whether - and how hard - their government should strike back . an opinion poll published earlier this week by the hebrew university of jerusalem suggested 52 % of people believed israel should not respond , with 48 % saying it should . it also found that only 28 % of people supported military action if it led to a larger overall war , with 34 % saying they were opposed , with a sizeable 38 % saying they did not know . so israel awaits a response from iran . many have woken up with real fear about what could happen next . the risk of miscalculation remains . we do not know yet what further strikes on iran - if any - are being considered . i have spoken to international residents in israel who are actively considering evacuating their families . the australian government urged its citizens to leave both israel and the occupied palestinian territories , citing a " high risk of military reprisals and terrorist attacks ". the us embassy in jerusalem urged american citizens here to be cautious , warning the security environment could change quickly . the people of israel had been preparing for the start of the passover holiday next week . they will now also be waiting to see if and when and how iran decides to retaliate .