us vice - president kamala harris expressed " deep concern " over gaza in talks with israeli war cabinet member benny gantz , the white house says . in a statement , ms harris ' s office said she had urged israel to let more aid into gaza , while calling on hamas to accept terms for a ceasefire . it said they discussed the need for a " credible " humanitarian plan before any major military operation in rafah . the us is ramping up pressure on israel to facilitate more aid for gaza . us president joe biden , who is running for re - election this november , is facing political pressure from fellow democrats over his handling of the israel - gaza war . mr gantz ' s visit is being seen as a snub to israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , who has yet to receive an invitation to the white house 15 months after his right - wing coalition took office . the moderate chairman of israel ' s national unity party , mr gantz has proved a stiff political opponent to mr netanyahu , despite joining him as a member of his war cabinet after the attack nearly five months ago by hamas that triggered the conflict . the us vice - president told reporters before monday ' s meeting : " israel has a right to defend itself . " far too many palestinian civilians , innocent civilians have been killed . we need to get more aid in , we need to get hostages out . and that remains our position ." the meeting took place while mr biden was at camp david , the presidential retreat just outside washington . it came a day after ms harris , at a memorial event to civil rights marchers in alabama , forcefully demanded that " given the immense scale of suffering in gaza , there must be an immediate ceasefire " of at least six weeks . the us has been working to broker such an agreement between hamas and israel with the help of qatar and egypt . mr gantz also spoke with national security adviser jake sullivan at the white house on monday . he was expected to meet secretary of state antony blinken , too , during his visit . national security council spokesperson john kirby said during a briefing on monday that mr gantz had requested the washington meeting . mr kirby declined to address mr netanyahu ' s concerns over the visit . owing to the difficulties of getting humanitarian assistance to gaza , the us airdropped aid over the weekend . last week , at least 112 palestinians were reportedly killed when large crowds descended on lorries carrying aid while israeli tanks were present . israel said the tanks fired warning shots , but did not strike the lorries and that many of the dead were trampled or run over . this has been disputed by hamas , which said there was " undeniable " evidence of " direct firing at citizens ". the israeli military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas after the group ' s gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 back to gaza as hostages . more than 30 , 500 people , mostly women and children , have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s health ministry . hamas is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk , us and others .