four israeli soldiers have been killed in a hamas rocket attack near one of the main crossings used to deliver aid into gaza , israel has said . the kerem shalom crossing was closed overnight by israel following the strike . subsequent israeli strikes in the southern gazan city of rafah have reportedly killed at least 12 people . israel ' s military said early on monday it was urging gazans sheltering in parts of rafah to evacuate . it comes as talks aimed at securing a ceasefire deal in gaza and the release of hostages have stalled . the israeli defense forces ( idf ) said 10 projectiles had been fired from an area near the rafah crossing in southern gaza , about 3 . 6km ( 2 . 2 miles ) from kerem shalom . hamas ' s armed wing claimed responsibility and said its target was a nearby israeli army base . they were fired from a site some 350m from a civilian shelter , the idf said it called the launches " another clear example of the terrorist organisation ' s systematic exploitation of humanitarian facilities and spaces , and their continued use of the gazan civilian population as human shields ". hamas denies it uses civilians as human shields . the israeli military confirmed a counter - strike in rafah , saying it struck the launcher from which the projectiles were fired and a nearby military structure . there were two israeli strikes on sunday , killing at least 12 people according to gaza health officials . the latest violence follows two days of talks with mediators in cairo , egypt . there has been little progress , with both israel and hamas saying they will not give ground on key demands , but discussions are expected to resume on monday . hamas said its delegation would travel to qatar to consult with the group ' s leadership . cia chief william burns , who has also been involved in mediation efforts , has left the egyptian capital for talks in doha , according to reports . the truce proposal is believed to involve a 40 - day pause in fighting , allowing the release of hostages in gaza and a number of palestinian prisoners being held in israeli jails . hamas said it viewed the current proposal in a " positive light ", but the main sticking point appears to be whether the ceasefire deal would be permanent or temporary . the group is insisting any deal makes a specific commitment towards an end to the war , but israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu rejected that on sunday . " the state of israel cannot accept this [ hamas ' s demands ], we are not prepared to accept a situation in which the hamas brigades come out of their bunkers , take control of gaza again , rebuild their military infrastructure , and return to threatening the citizens of israel in the settlements surrounding the southern mountains , in all parts of the country . " this will be a terrible defeat for the state of israel ," he added . the war began after waves of hamas gunmen stormed across gaza ' s border into israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostages . the group is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by many western countries . during the subsequent israeli military campaign in gaza , more than 34 , 600 palestinians have been killed and over 77 , 900 wounded , according to figures from the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . mr netanyahu has faced pressure from within his far - right coalition to press ahead with the long - promised offensive in gaza ' s southern - most city , rafah , where an estimated 1 . 4 million people have taken shelter after fleeing fighting in northern and central parts of the strip . the us is reluctant to back a military operation that could cause significant civilian casualties , and has insisted on seeing a plan to protect displaced palestinians first . early on monday , the idf said it was encouraging residents in rafah ' s eastern neighbourhoods to make their way toward an " expanded humanitarian zone ." " the expanded humanitarian zone includes field hospitals , tents and increased amounts of food , water , medicine and other supplies . " in accordance with the approval of the government , an ongoing situation assessment will guide the gradual movement of civilians in the specified areas in eastern rafah , to the humanitarian area ," a statement posted to x , formerly twitter , read . seven months into its offensive against hamas , israel has said that victory is impossible without taking rafah . but with more than more than 1 . 4 million displaced palestinians sheltering there , western powers and neighbouring egypt have raised fears that there could be high numbers of civilian casualties . update 7 may 2024 : the number of soldiers killed in the hamas rocket attack has been updated in this article from three to four .