many of the people treated for injuries following a rush on an aid convoy in gaza on thursday suffered bullet wounds , the un has said . un observers visited gaza city ' s al - shifa hospital and saw some of the roughly 200 people still being treated . hamas has accused israel of firing at civilians , but israel said there was a " stampede " after its troops fired warning shots . leaders from around the world have called for a full investigation . the incident unfolded after hundreds of people descended on an aid convoy as it moved along a coastal road , accompanied by the israeli military , in the early hours of thursday morning . the world food programme has warned that a famine is imminent in northern gaza , which has received very little aid in recent weeks , and where an estimated 300 , 000 people are living with little food or clean water . in footage from the scene , volleys of gunfire can be heard and people are seen scrambling over lorries and ducking behind the vehicles . gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry has said that at least 112 people were killed in the incident and another 760 were injured . in a statement on social media , rear adm daniel hagari , spokesman for the israel defense forces ( idf ), said , " dozens of gazans were injured as a result of pushing and trampling ." the idf ' s lt col peter lerner also told the uk ' s channel 4 news that a " mob stormed the convoy " and that israeli troops " cautiously [ tried ] to disperse the mob with a few warning shots ". mark regev , special adviser to the israeli prime minister , had earlier told cnn that israel had not been involved directly in any way and that the gunfire had come from " palestinian armed groups ", though he did not provide evidence . giorgios petropoulos , head of the gaza sub - office of the un co - ordinator for humanitarian affairs ( ocha ) told the bbc he and a team sent to al - shifa hospital found a large number of people with bullet wounds . he said all but a handful of the 70 to 80 patients in the emergency room he visited had been injured during the convoy incident . in addition to those with bullet wounds , he said doctors had treated many who had fallen down or been trampled - but he was unable to say with certainty which group was larger . mr petropoulos said those with bullet injuries had suffered wounds in the upper and lower body . one patient told him he had been shot in the chest and had walked to shifa to get treatment . " he said they ( israeli troops ) usually shoot in the air . this time , they shot into the thickest part of the crowd ," mr petropoulos said . but , mr petropoulos emphasised un personnel had not been present during the incident making it very difficult to know precisely what happened . dr mohamed salha , interim hospital manager at al - awda hospital , previously told the bbc that they had received 176 of the injured , of whom 142 had bullet wounds . he added that the others had suffered broken limbs . responding to the incident , uk foreign secretary lord cameron called the deaths " horrific " and said there " must be an urgent investigation and accountability ". " this must not happen again ," he said . he added that the incident could not be separated from the " inadequate aid supplies " entering gaza and called the current levels " simply unacceptable ". us president joe biden announced that the us would begin dropping aid into gaza by air , saying : " innocent people got caught in a terrible war , unable to feed their families . we need to do more , and the united states will do more ." israel military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk and others - after its gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 back to gaza as hostages . gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry says more than 30 , 000 people , including 21 , 000 children and women , have been killed in gaza since then with some 7 , 000 missing and at least 70 , 450 injured .