a us military ship is sailing towards the middle east , carrying equipment to build a temporary pier off the coast of gaza , the army says . the support ship , general frank s besson , set sail from a military base in the state of virginia on saturday . it comes after president joe biden said the us would build the floating harbour to help get aid into gaza by sea . the un has warned that famine in the gaza strip is " almost inevitable " and children are starving to death . the us and jordan carried out an airdrop on sunday , parachuting in more than 11 , 500 meals that included rice , flour , pasta , and canned food , the us military said . aid deliveries by land and air have proved difficult and dangerous . the world food programme had to pause land deliveries after its convoys came under gunfire and looting . and on friday , there were reports that five people had been killed by a falling aid package , when its parachute failed to open properly . the us ship departed " less than 36 hours " after mr biden made his announcement , us central command wrote on x . it is " carrying the first equipment to establish a temporary pier to deliver vital humanitarian supplies " to gaza , the statement continued . the pentagon has said it could take up to 60 days to build the pier with the help of 1 , 000 troops - none of whom would go ashore . charities have said those suffering in gaza cannot wait that long . meanwhile , an aid ship laden with some 200 tonnes of food had been expected to set sail from a port in larnaca , cyprus on sunday afternoon , cypriot media reported . however as sunday night ticked into monday morning , it was still docked in cyprus . the charity world central kitchen ( wck ), which has provided the food aid , told the bbc : " this maritime operation remains a quickly evolving and fluid situation ... we plan to embark as soon as possible ." it follows an eu announcement that a new sea route would be opened over the weekend to allow aid to sail directly from cyprus - the closest eu country to gaza . the ship , open arms , belongs to the spanish charity of the same name . exactly where it plans to dock when it reaches gaza has not been publicly revealed . gaza has no functioning port and its surrounding waters are too shallow for large vessels , but wck said its team had been building a jetty off the coast to receive the aid . the charity added that its plans are " not related " to the floating pier the us is aiming to build . israel has welcomed the ocean initiative , and said aid would be delivered after security checks were carried out in cyprus " in accordance with israeli standards ". israel ' s military launched an air and ground campaign in the gaza strip after hamas ' s attacks on israel on 7 october , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 30 , 900 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says . the conflict has created a growing humanitarian crisis , and the un has warned that at least 576 , 000 people across the gaza strip - one quarter of the population - are facing catastrophic levels of food insecurity . western countries have pressed israel to expand land deliveries by facilitating more routes and opening additional crossings . lorries have been entering the south of gaza through the egyptian - controlled rafah crossing and the israeli - controlled kerem shalom crossing . but the north , which was the focus of the first phase of the israeli ground offensive , has been largely cut off from assistance in recent months . an estimated 300 , 000 palestinians are living there with little food or clean water . israel has been accused of hampering aid efforts , and an independent un expert last week accused it of mounting " a starvation campaign against the palestinian people in gaza ". yeela cytrin , a legal adviser at the israeli mission to the un , responded that " israel utterly rejects allegations that it is using starvation as a tool of war ", before walking out in protest .