russia and china have blocked a us draft resolution put to the un which for the first time called for a ceasefire and hostage releases in gaza . while there have been previous attempts by other countries to call for a ceasefire , the us text marked a hardening of its stance towards israel . but russia and china used their veto . moscow called the text " hypocritical ". the move by the us , israel ' s key ally , comes at a time of growing tensions between them . washington has made clear that it expects israel to lessen the intensity of its offensive in gaza , where the hamas - run health ministry says at least 31 , 988 people - mainly women and children - have been killed since the war began on 7 october . it has also said it would not support an israeli attack on the city of rafah without a plan to protect civilians there , and has urged israel to allow more humanitarian aid into gaza . israel ' s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has said that israel will go ahead with a planned ground assault on rafah , even without the support of its key ally . the us secretary of state , antony blinken , in tel aviv for talks , said such an operation was not the answer . " it risks killing more civilians , it risks wreaking greater havoc with the provision of humanitarian assistance , it risks further isolating israel around the world and jeopardising this long - term security and standing ," he said . the us - one of five permanent members of the security council with the power of veto - has previously blocked resolutions calling for a ceasefire , saying such a move would be wrong while delicate negotiations for a truce and hostage releases were continuing between israel and hamas . but on friday it publicly changed its position , in a carefully - worded draft . " the security council ," the text read , " determines the imperative of an immediate and sustained ceasefire ", adding " and towards that end unequivocally supports ongoing international diplomatic efforts to secure such a ceasefire in connection with the release of all remaining hostages ". in doing so , the us linked its support for a ceasefire to the release of the israeli hostages - 253 - held by hamas . although russia and china vetoed the draft , 11 countries on the 15 - member council voted in favour of it . algeria voted against it and guyana abstained . early on saturday , a vote on a new text calling for a ceasefire was postponed until monday , diplomats told the afp and reuters news agencies . before friday ' s vote , russia ' s ambassador to the un , vassily nebenzia , criticised the text as " exceedingly politicised ", accusing it of doing nothing to avert israel ' s planned assault on rafah . more than half of gaza ' s 2 . 3 million palestinians are sheltering in the southern city , where israel says hamas leaders are hiding and hamas battalions still operate . the us ambassador to the un , linda thomas - greenfield , called russia and china ' s action " deeply , deeply cynical ". " russia and china simply did not want to vote for a resolution that was penned by the united states , because it would rather see us fail than see this council succeed ," she said . speaking after talks with mr netanyahu , mr blinken said the us was trying to show the international community " a sense of urgency ". a ceasefire tied to the release of hostages , he said , was " something that everyone , including the countries that veto the resolution should have been able to get behind ". french president emmanuel macron said his country would now work on an alternative resolution . " what ' s important to note is that the united states has changed its position , and shown its will to defend , very clearly now , a ceasefire ," mr macron said . " for a long time , the americans were reticent . that reticence is now gone ."