in a classroom - turned - bedroom at a un school in nuseirat refugee camp in central gaza , palestinian children clamber through rubble and blood - stained mattresses . just hours earlier , at least 35 people were killed and many more wounded at the site in an israeli military strike early in the morning , according to the head of the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa .“ i saw pieces of iron flying and everything falling down . what happened to us is unimaginable ,” said naim al - dadah from gaza city , one of hundreds of displaced people sheltering there . israel ’ s military says it carried out a “ precision , intelligence - based strike ” to target between 20 to 30 hamas and islamic jihad fighters who were using the school as a staging ground to plan and launch attacks . however , 14 children and nine women were among those killed , the hamas - run government media office says . earlier , medics reported similar numbers to a local journalist working with the bbc . during the war , israel has repeatedly accused hamas of hiding its operatives in schools , hospitals , and other buildings , using civilians as human shields – charges the armed group denies .“ all of the red lines have been crossed ,” said mr al - dadah , suggesting that being in a un institution had given his family no protection . he added : “ the world treats us with double standards . israel has violated all international laws .” israel has faced growing diplomatic isolation over its conduct of the war , with cases against it before two international courts , but insists it has acted within the laws of armed conflict as it tries to counter what it sees as an existential threat from hamas . on a call with journalists , the israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesman lt col peter lerner said that some of the palestinian armed fighters based in the nuseirat school had been involved in the 7 october attacks , which killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel and triggered the war in gaza . no evidence was immediately given . col lerner suggested that hamas and islamic jihad operatives would have “ felt relatively safe ” at the building , because it belonged to the un . the idf published a photo of the school with classrooms on the first and second floors marked to show the locations it said were targeted by warplanes . to an unusual extent in this case , the israeli military has stressed that it took steps to reduce the risk of harming civilians . “ we actually called off the strike twice ,” lt col lerner said . the overnight attack was the latest case of mass casualties among palestinians trying to find safety as israel expands its offensives in the gaza strip . some of those staying at the un school said that they came from northern gaza – but had heeded israeli military evacuation orders and headed south in the early stages of the war – only to be displaced in the past month from rafah , on the egyptian border . this week , the idf announced a new ground and air assault in central gaza , targeting what it said were hamas fighters who had regrouped there . its forces have repeatedly returned to parts of the palestinian territory which they previously withdrew from . in a courtyard of the un school , more than 20 corpses were lined up in body bags and blankets . a journalist working with the bbc filmed several women cradling the heads and hands of their dead sons .“ it was a very harsh night ,” says ibrahim lulu , a teenager who said his cousin , mohammed was killed . “ my brothers , friends and i were sitting together when suddenly there was an explosion . the mattress protected me because i was sitting against the wall . all the bodies were dismembered and torn .” residents said the part of the school targeted was being used as a shelter for men and boys , with women and girls sleeping in a separate section . part of the school had previously been targeted by an israeli strike in mid - may with the idf then saying it was being used as a “ hamas war room ”. overnight , casualties were rushed from nuseirat to the al - aqsa martyrs ’ hospital in nearby deir al - balah . in recent days it has been struggling to treat hundreds of wounded people following intense israeli bombardment and shelling in the surrounded area . the hospital had earlier reported an electrical generator failure saying that this would make it harder to treat patients . on wednesday , medics from doctors without borders ( msf ) which is supporting the hospital described chaotic scenes there . it said that in the previous 24 hours , at least 70 dead people had been brought in , and more than 300 wounded , mostly women and children .