the green party says it has blocked a " small number " of election candidates after an investigation into their online activity . the party was still examining previous social media posts hours before nominations closed at 16 . 00 bst on friday . it was already known that four candidates are not running , after a probe into reports of antisemitic or extreme comments . but it is not yet clear whether , or how many any , other candidates have been dropped . co - leader adrian ramsay told the bbc on thursday that four candidates were " no longer standing ," without specifying whether they had been dropped or withdrew themselves . it comes as the times reports party officials were examining nearly 20 candidates over online material on thursday night , less than 24 hours before the deadline . poll tracker : how do parties comparevoting : when is the election and how do i vote ? general election 2024 : all bbc stories and analysis in a statement , the party said it had taken " decisive action " against a " small number of people who did put themselves forward "." we would never allow anybody antisemitic to stand for the green party ," a spokesperson added . the greens are hoping to field candidates in every seat in england and wales for the first time at the surprise general election called last month . this requires the candidates to find 575 candidates in total , 103 more than at the last election in 2019 . the scottish greens are a separate party . the party has defended its vetting processes , but has faced accusations some of its candidates have expressed or shared antisemitic statements online . the greens have previously said they are working with lord mann , a former labour mp and the government ' s advisor on antisemitism , " to better educate green representatives about anti - jewish racism ". the board of deputies of british jews accused the greens of taking too long to act on " such a clear problem "." serious parties need to take candidate selection seriously - the greens need to see this as a wake - up call ," the community group added . on thursday , mr ramsay defended the party ' s investigation process , saying it was independent of the party leadership and this was a " matter of good governance ".“ like any other party , we have candidates who are selected and end up not standing . that ’ s no different to anyone else ," he added .“ if anyone has a situation where questions are raised about comments people have raised , those are properly investigated ." the greens took a pro - ceasefire stance early on during the war in gaza and are calling for tougher action against israel , including boycotts and stopping uk arms sales to the israeli military . it has previously said it opposes " any efforts to exploit the ongoing tragedy in israel - palestine to foster division , intensify antisemitism , islamophobia and other forms of racism ".