food charity world central kitchen ( wck ) has called for an independent investigation into the killing of seven of its staff by israeli drone strikes in gaza . it comes after the israel defense forces ( idf ) said " grave mistakes " led to the fatal targeting of the workers . an israeli military inquiry led to two senior officers being dismissed . however , the ceo of the aid group said the israeli military " cannot credibly investigate its own failure in gaza ". in a statement , erin gore continued : "[ the idf ' s ] apologies for the outrageous killing of our colleagues represent cold comfort . it ' s cold comfort for the victims ' families and wck ' s global family ." she said israel must take " concrete steps " to ensure the safety of aid workers operating on the ground in gaza , where several organisations have suspended operations in light of the deaths . israel is under pressure from key western partners to publish the full findings of its investigation , which have not been made public . us secretary of state antony blinken said he had received the israeli report and was " reviewing it very carefully ". he said the us will be " looking to see not just what steps are being taken , but the results that follow from them ". the biden administration is facing mounting pressure from some democrats over its military support to israel . on friday , more than three dozen members of congress , including former house speaker nancy pelosi , signed a letter urging the us president and mr blinken to " reconsider " the authorisation of an arms package transfer to israel . the letter called for the us to withhold further arms transfers pending an investigation into the airstrike that killed the aid workers , or if israel " fails to sufficiently mitigate harm to innocent civilians in gaza ." in the space of four minutes on 1 april , the seven aid workers were killed when three missiles destroyed their cars one by one as they engaged in humanitarian work . the charity ' s team had been authorised by the israeli military to help transfer aid supplies from the coast to a warehouse . the idf said a series of mistakes and miscommunications resulted in them being mistaken for hamas operatives and targeted . israel ' s military said a " number of armed gunmen " were in the vicinity of the convoy , but drone operators wrongly tracked cars carrying aid workers . the army apologised after admitting its soldiers did not follow protocols and were not given crucial information about the pre - approved aid mission . as well as the dismissal of a colonel and a major , three idf commanders have been formally reprimanded and the drone unit responsible has been suspended . uk foreign secretary lord david cameron said british officials were " carefully reviewing the initial findings " and called the dismissal of two officers a " first step ". in a post on x , formerly twitter , he said : " these findings must be published in full and followed up with a wholly independent review to ensure utmost transparency and accountability ." additional material from the idf investigation - including video footage purporting to show a hamas gunman on top of an aid lorry - was shown to journalists in a private briefing ahead of the idf ' s public apology , but only a summary of the findings has been made publicly available . the israeli investigation was carried out via a pre - existing disciplinary procedure which deals with allegations of military misconduct , and was overseen by a reservist major general . idf spokesman rear adm daniel hagari described the report as being carried out by a " professional , independent body that is outside of the chain of command ". on friday , he told a press conference the findings would be made public in a " clear and transparent manner " after being presented in full to wck and representatives of countries whose citizens were killed in the incident . he said idf soldiers were " certain they were targeting hamas " but described the strikes as a " tragedy " stemming from a " terrible chain of errors ". also on friday , united nations secretary general antã³nio guterres said 196 aid workers had died in gaza since the conflict began , adding " we want to know why each of them was killed ". he told a press conference : " the israeli government has acknowledged mistakes - but the essential problem is not who made the mistakes , it is the military strategy and procedures in place that allow for those mistakes to multiply time and time again . " fixing those failures requires independent investigations and meaningful and measurable changes on the ground ." the deaths have contributed to growing international pressure over how israel is conducting the war , which has led to calls for countries to stop supplying israel with weapons in recent days . on thursday , us president joe biden told israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu that washington ' s ongoing support was contingent on more aid being allowed into gaza and additional measures being introduced to protect aid workers . israel later said it had approved the opening of two routes into gaza for humanitarian deliveries . it is not clear when these would be opened or under what conditions . the erez gate in northern gaza will be reopened for the first time since the start of the war , and the israeli container port of ashdod - which is close to gaza - will accept humanitarian supplies . more aid from jordan will also be allowed to enter via the kerem shalom crossing . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . more than 33 , 091 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says .