a us military veteran has refused to pay a fine for carrying a pro - hamas sign at a protest in south yorkshire . michael rabb , 73 , of boulder , colorado , was arrested at the demonstration at sheffield city hall on 21 october . a trial at city of london magistrates ' court found him guilty of displaying the sign in such a way as to arouse reasonable suspicion he was a member or supporter of a proscribed organisation . but on tuesday , he told the judge he was " not going to pay " the £ 1 , 000 fine . the ex - us navy fighter pilot also refused to pay £ 930 costs and a £ 400 surcharge . the court had earlier heard that rabb was spotted at the protest outside sheffield city hall carrying a homemade sign which read " stand with hamas , end israel , free palestine ". hamas is proscribed as a terrorist group by the uk government . rabb ' s sign had caused " distress " among organisers , potentially inflamed tensions and the police were asked to step in to talk to him , prosecutor sebastian walker told the court . he said rabb left the protest after being spoken to about the sign , but later returned and was arrested . mr walker said rabb had shown no remorse or regret for his actions . rabb told the court his behaviour was a " legitimate act of civil disobedience " which was not disproportionate . he said his arrest was an attempt to shut down dissent and described the use of the terrorism act to bring him to court as " arbitrary ". by any standards of " decency " he should be found not guilty , rabb said . following the guilty verdict , district judge annabel pilling told rabb that the fine was " designed to hurt ". however , rabb responded by saying : " no judge , i ' m not going to pay . i refuse to pay ." judge pilling warned rabb that he had " extremely strongly held views " and said he may find himself in contempt of court should he not pay . she gave him seven days to make the payment in full . follow bbc yorkshire on facebook , x ( formerly twitter ) and instagram . send your story ideas to yorkslincs . news @ bbc . co . uk .