evacuation warnings issued by israel to people in gaza ahead of attacks have contained a host of significant errors , bbc analysis has revealed . warnings contained contradictory information and sometimes misnamed districts . this made them confusing to gazans seeking safety . experts say such mistakes could violate israel ' s international law obligations . the israel defense forces ( idf ) has rejected any assertion the warnings were confusing or contradictory . in a statement , it said the alerts analysed by the bbc were only one element of its " extensive efforts to encourage the evacuation [ of ] civilians out of harm ' s way ". international humanitarian law requires attacking forces to give effective advance warning of attacks which may affect the civilian population , unless circumstances do not permit . israel says its warning system is designed to help civilians flee danger as it continues its war against hamas . the system divides a map of gaza into hundreds of numbered blocks . israel has produced an interactive online map of the blocks that geo - locates users , showing their live location and which block number they are in . this idf post from late january shows a social media post on x with a link through via qr code to the master block map . but people we spoke to have described struggling to get online to access the system , as well as finding the block system difficult to understand , notwithstanding the errors . the bbc analysed the idf ' s arabic language social media channels on facebook , x and telegram , where we found hundreds of posts containing warnings . the same warnings were often posted repeatedly . we also searched for leafleted warnings which had been photographed and shared online . the idf says it has dropped 16 million such leaflets over gaza . we have focused our analysis on warnings issued since 1 december , which is when the idf launched its block system as a way of providing more precise instructions than previously , after coming under international pressure . we grouped all of the idf ' s posts and leaflets that we found after this date into 26 separate warnings . the vast majority made reference to the master block system . the idf told the bbc it also warned of impending attacks through pre - recorded phone messages and live phone calls . due to damage to gaza ' s phone network we have not been able to compile data on these phone calls . and our analysis of leaflets was limited to those we could find photographed and shared online . the 26 separate warnings we found contained specific information from the idf that people could use to escape areas of danger . but 17 of them also contained errors and inconsistencies . these included : in addition , one warning listed neighbourhoods as being in one district when they were actually in another . another mixed up the block numbers of two neighbourhoods . and in a third , some blocks listed in the text were on the opposite side of gaza to those highlighted on the accompanying map . when we put these errors to the idf , it did not respond to the issues we raised with the maps specifically but said the text of posts had been sufficiently clear . it also said that when arrows were used to direct people to safety , " it is obvious that the arrows point to a general direction " and reiterated that the key information had been provided in the text . these inaccuracies and errors may violate israel ' s obligation under international law to provide " effective advanced warnings ", says janina dill , co - director of the oxford institute of ethics , law and armed conflict . if the majority of warnings contain errors or are unclear to the point that civilians can ' t understand them then , she says , " these warnings do not fulfil the proper function they have under international humanitarian law ". this , adds kubo macak professor of international law at the university of exeter , undermines their function to give " civilians the chance to protect themselves ". in december , saleh , a tech entrepreneur from gaza city , was sheltering with his children and his in - laws in nuseirat in central gaza - where , he says , there was no electricity or phone signal and long periods of internet outage . he saw people killed and others fleeing from a nearby school as it was being shelled , but says he had not received any idf evacuation details . eventually , he found someone with a sim card that allowed him to access data networks in egypt and israel and came across an evacuation warning on an israeli government facebook page . " there was an evacuation order for several residential blocks - [ but ] we didn ' t know which block we lived in . this led to a big argument ," salah says . salah could only access the internet intermittently , but he messaged his wife amani , who has been in the uk since just before the war . she was able to go online and access the idf ' s master block map and pinpoint where her husband was . but then , looking back at the specific evacuation warning on facebook , the couple realised the numbered block where salah was staying was shown cut in two - adding to the family ' s confusion . eventually , salah decided to leave with the children . but some of his family stayed put - until fighting escalated further . when the bbc analysed the facebook evacuation warning salah had been trying to decipher , we found further points of confusion . in text , the post urged people to leave blocks 2220 , 2221 , 2222 , 2223 , 2224 and 2225 - all blocks that appear in the idf ' s online master map . but in the accompanying map , the six numbered blocks had been lumped into one , and mislabelled as block 2220 . despite these inconsistencies , israel presented its block warning system at the international court of justice in january as part of its defence against allegations by south africa that it is committing genocide . israel ' s lawyers argued that it was doing its utmost to protect civilians and had " developed a detailed map so that specific areas can be temporarily evacuated , instead of evacuating entire areas ". they presented one social media warning in court as evidence - but the bbc has found two errors in it . block 55 and 99 were listed in the text of the post from 13 december but they were not shaded on the map . the idf told the bbc that when a block number is explicitly mentioned in text , the warning is sufficiently clear . israel ' s lawyers also claimed that the idf , via its arabic twitter account , was providing information on the location of shelters close to areas being evacuated . but in all of the posts and leaflets we analysed we did not see any warning providing names or exact locations of shelters . bbc analysis has also found the idf ' s block system overall was used inconsistently . nine of the 26 warnings listed a mix of block numbers and neighbourhood names . another nine didn ' t mention block numbers at all . despite linking through to the online master map , they instead listed neighbourhoods by name - which often sprawled over many numbered blocks . the bbc could not find a way to determine the exact blocks of these neighbourhoods . the abdu family , which includes 32 people , also fled gaza city to central gaza early in the war . then , in december , they received a warning leaflet dropped from a plane . messages on the family whatsapp group , which the bbc has seen , chart their confusion as they argued for two days over what the leaflet meant . it contained a list of neighbourhoods to evacuate , but the family couldn ' t locate most of these places . the warning asked people to leave " al - bureij camp and the neighbourhoods of badr , the north coast , al - nuzha , al - zahra , al - buraq , al - rawda , and al - safa in the areas south of wadi gaza ." we located an al - zahra and a badr close by , but they are north of the wadi gaza riverbed . we could not find the neighbourhoods of al - rawda or al - nuzha in the " areas south of wadi gaza ". the abdu family struggled to decide what to do . should they stay and risk getting caught up in a fierce ground battle - or leave , and abandon the only shelter they might find ? some followed the warning to go to " shelters in deir al - balah ". but when they arrived they felt unsafe and decided to return . if they were going to die they would die together , they told us . satellite data on destruction in gaza - analysed by jamon van den hoek at oregon state university and corey scher of city university new york graduate center - shows that the area of deir al - balah that the family fled to came under more intense attack during this period than the area that they had left . the idf told us it had cross - checked " data regarding civilian presence and movement that followed these warnings " and that many people did receive and follow them . it said that warnings had " saved countless civilian lives in the gaza strip ".