israel has told tens of thousands more palestinians to leave rafah , as it intensifies military operations in southern gaza . flyers dropped from the air and posts on social media told residents in the city ' s eastern districts to go to al - mawasi - a narrow coastal area which israel calls an " expanded humanitarian zone ". parts of rafah where the streets were packed with locals and displaced people just days ago , now look like a ghost town . israel has said it will proceed with planned operations in rafah despite the us and other allies warning that a ground offensive could lead to mass civilian casualties and a humanitarian crisis . on saturday , us president joe biden said a ceasefire in gaza was possible as soon as the next day if hamas released its hostages ." israel said it ' s up to hamas , if they wanted to do it , we could end it tomorrow . and the ceasefire would begin tomorrow ," he told a fund - raising event in seattle . israel says 128 people taken hostage by hamas on 7 october are unaccounted for , 36 of whom are presumed dead . images showed smoke rising over rafah on saturday and witnesses quoted by afp reported air strikes near the crossing with egypt . posting on x , formerly twitter , the israel defense forces ( idf ) said that during the past day troops had been engaged in " face - to - face battles " with hamas fighters in rafah . the idf added that soldiers had found " a number of underground shafts " in the area . in the past day , there have been dozens of israeli air strikes across the length of the gaza strip , with the israeli military saying it ’ s targeting what it calls terrorists and terrorist infrastructure . on saturday evening the idf said it was " currently striking hamas terror targets in the jabaliya area ", in the far north of the gaza strip . earlier it instructed residents to leave some areas of northern gaza . it said they should " temporarily evacuate to shelters in western gaza city ". israeli media report that several hamas rockets were fired at ashkelon overnight , a port city about 10km ( six miles ) north of the gaza border . the times of israel says three people were lightly injured when one rocket hit their home . israel ' s plans to extend its ground offensive to the southern tip of the gaza strip - where hundreds of thousands of palestinians have sought refuge from fighting elsewhere in the territory , has sparked international concern . last week , president biden said the us would not supply heavy weapons to israel which could be used in a major assault on rafah . in an interview with cnn , biden said america would continue to give israel the weapons it needed to defend itself , including interceptors for its “ iron dome ” air defence system . but he said us - supplied heavy weapons had already killed civilians in gaza , and warned israel would not keep washington ' s support if it carried out military operations in those population centres . uk foreign secretary david cameron has said britain is opposed to the military operation in rafah , but is unlikely to follow america in delaying arms sales to israel . on friday , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said he hopes to overcome his differences with mr biden - but vowed to press ahead with its military assault on rafah ." if we need to ... we will stand alone . i have said that if necessary we will fight with our fingernails ," mr netanyahu said . saturday ' s evacuation order comes hours after a us state department report said israel may have used american - supplied weapons in breach of international humanitarian law in some instances during the war in gaza . it is " reasonable to assess " that those arms have been used in ways " inconsistent " with israel ' s obligations , the report said , but added the us did not have complete information in its assessment and that shipments could continue . aid agencies have warned that the continuing israeli military operation in southern gaza means palestinians will be left without any places of safety . khitam al - khatib , a rafah resident who said she had lost at least 10 of her relatives in an airstrike on a family house earlier on saturday , told reuters there was " no safe place in gaza "." they threw fliers on rafah and said , from rafah to al - zawayda is safe , people should evacuate there , and they did , and what has become of them ? dismembered bodies ?" she was quoted as saying . the charity oxfam has said that the area has no functioning hospitals and aid supplies are extremely limited . the largest of rafah ' s three partially functioning hospitals , abu youssef al - najjar , had to be hastily abandoned the following day after staff received an evacuation order and there was fighting nearby . the un ' s agency for palestinian refugees has also expressed concerns about the conditions in the al - mawasi encampment where people are being told to go . sam rose from unrwa told bbc news that the area had virtually no facilities for the numbers being sent there ." it ' s people living in shacks , people living in tents by the side of a sandy beach road . very difficult in terms of here providing services ." there ' s no water networks there . there ' s no infrastructure , sewage , sanitation ," he said . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage , according to israeli authorities . more than 34 , 900 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry .