the families of seven israeli hostages being held in gaza have called for their release and safe return , at a press conference in london . the father of a 19 - year - old being held said " all suffering " would end " on both sides " if the hostages came home . the families added that recent failures in negotiation talks between israel and hamas caused " despair and desperation ". thursday marks five months since the conflict began when hamas fighters stormed southern israel on 7 october . speaking at the israeli embassy on thursday , the father of nimrod cohen , a 19 - year - old soldier taken hostage , said officials needed to move forwards with negotiations . " whatever agreement it will take , is what the government must do ," yehuda cohen said . mr cohen said that the families are " not making the terms " for negotiations , but added that " if 134 hostages will be returned from gaza , back to israel , all this suffering on both sides will end ." around 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 hostages were taken when hamas fighters stormed into a music festival in southern israel on 7 october , according to israeli tallies . more than 130 hostages are still believed to be held by hamas . more than 30 , 800 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says . michael levy ' s brother , or , a software engineer , was at the music festival and was taken hostage after witnessing the murder of his wife eynav . mr levy said their two - year - old son , almog , has been left without either of his parents and cries whenever he hears the words " mummy and daddy ." he added that he thought there should be an exchange of hostages , but said it was hamas that needed to be asked about the suffering of the palestinians civilians . " we hate to see anyone suffer , israelis or palestinians ... we do not hate anyone , we just want to get our loved ones back ," he said . orit meir , whose 21 - year - old son almog meir was also kidnapped from the music festival , said she was beginning to lose hope . " i think my government must do everything to bring them back , even if it ' s at a cost ," she said . " they have to bring them back at any price ," she added . on thursday morning , a hamas delegation left cairo , where it had hoped to achieve a breakthrough in negotiations towards a ceasefire deal . egyptian and qatari mediators in cairo struggled to seal a deal that would see hamas free israeli hostages in exchange for palestinians held in israeli jails . israel reportedly demanded a list of the surviving hostages who could be released under the agreement ., but did not send a delegation to cairo . it had been hoped that a 40 - day ceasefire agreement could be reached before the start of the islamic month of ramadan this week . during a week - long ceasefire in late november , 105 hostages - most of them women and children - were freed in return for some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails .