benjamin netanyahu has vowed israel can " stand alone ", after the us warned arms shipments could be stopped if he orders a full - scale invasion of rafah in gaza . thousands of people have already fled the southern city after the israeli military began what it called a " limited " operation on monday . us president joe biden has repeatedly warned against the operation , saying that it would cross a " red line ". but mr netanyahu dismissed the us warning , saying israel would fight on . " if we need to ... we will stand alone . i have said that if necessary we will fight with our fingernails ," the prime minister said . mr netanyahu also invoked the war of 1948 - where the newly formed state of israel was attacked by a coalition of arab states - to dismiss the us warnings . " in the war of independence 76 years ago , we were the few against the many ," he said . " we did not have weapons . there was an arms embargo on israel , but with great strength of spirit , heroism and unity among us - we were victorious ." despite mr netanyahu ' s comments , his government has come under pressure after the us suspended the delivery of 1 , 800 2 , 000lb ( 907kg ) bombs and 1 , 700 500lb bombs over fears that they could cause civilian deaths in rafah . mr biden went further still in an interview with cnn on wednesday , saying that if the attack went ahead he would further suspend supplies of artillery shells and other weapons . yoav gallant , mr netanyahu ' s defence minister , dismissed the us warnings , saying israel ' s " enemies as well as ... best of friends " should understand that his country " cannot be subdued ". " we will stand strong , we will achieve our goals ," he added . the comments came hours after the un said more than 80 , 000 people had fled rafah since monday amid constant bombardment and as israeli tanks massed close to built - up areas . the un also warned that food and fuel were running out for the more than one million still sheltering in the city , because it was not receiving aid through nearby crossings . israeli troops took control and closed the rafah crossing with egypt at the start of their operation , while the un said it was too dangerous for its staff and lorries to reach the reopened kerem shalom crossing with israel . israeli forces said they were conducting " targeted raids " against hamas elements remaining in the city . however , the israeli government has refused to rule out a full scale invasion , leading to mr biden ' s warning he would not supply it with the munitions to do so . white house national security spokesman john kirby said mr biden did not believe " smashing into rafah " would advance israel ' s objective of defeating hamas . " an enduring defeat of hamas certainly remains the israeli goal , and we share that goal with them ," mr kirby said . " the argument that somehow we ' re walking away from israel , or we ' re not willing to help them defeat hamas just doesn ' t comport with the facts ," he said . palestinian media said two people were killed on thursday afternoon in an israeli air strike in the al - jneineh neighbourhood of rafah - one of the eastern areas which the israel defense forces ( idf ) ordered residents to evacuate before beginning its ground operation began on monday night . another three people were reportedly killed in an air strike in the nearby brazil area , which is not in the evacuation zone but is next to the egyptian border . hamas and palestinian islamic jihad ( pij ) - which are proscribed as terrorist organisations by israel , the us and other countries - said they were targeting israeli forces on the eastern outskirts with mortar bombs and anti - tank missiles . hamas also said it had blown up a booby - trapped tunnel east of rafah underneath three israeli military vehicles . the idf said three of its soldiers were moderately wounded as a result of the explosion . overnight , at least five people were reportedly killed when a family ' s home in the western tal al - sultan neighbourhood was hit in an israeli strike . they included three children , one of them a one - year - old infant , medics said . meanwhile hopes of a peace deal - which seemed close earlier in the week before israel said it did not past muster - appeared to be fading . both israeli and hamas delegations left indirect talks in cairo on thursday . after seven months of war in gaza , israel insists victory is impossible without taking the city of rafah and eliminating the last remaining hamas battalions . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage , according to israeli authorities . more than 34 , 900 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . israel says 128 hostages are unaccounted for , 36 of whom are presumed dead .