the guardian leads with the call by hundreds of legal experts for an israeli arms ban . the paper gives details of the 17 - page letter sent to the prime minister that ' s been backed by 600 lawyers and academics , including the former president of the supreme court lady hale and two other former justices , lord sumption and lord wilson . the paper says conservative party sources believe foreign secretary lord david cameron has pushed for the government to harden its approach to israel but has been met with resistance from no 10 . " gaza plunges into new aid crisis ," says the i ' s headline . the paper says aid agencies are warning that children in the territory are dying of malnutrition and being forced to eat animal feed to survive . the metro also leads on the conflict with the headline " intolerable ", after the deaths of the three british men in gaza . israel says claims it is blocking humanitarian aid into gaza wholly unfounded . the times leads on a new alzheimer ' s study . it says thousands of britons who are worried about their memory will receive blood tests in the hope of detecting the disease earlier . it says these tests are important to make best use of a " new class of alzheimer ' s drugs that require early diagnosis ". the daily mail has the headline " mps caught up in naked honeytrap sex sting ". the paper says a serving minister is among a number of westminster figures who ' ve been sent flirtatious whatsapp messages and nude pictures , and there are fears that a foreign state may be involved . the story carries quotes from an unnamed labour party staff member who said whoever sent the messages seemed to know a lot about them . the sun leads with rishi sunak ' s comments that raised the prospect of taking the uk out of the european court of human rights . in an interview with the paper ' s never mind the ballots show , the prime minister said he believed controlling illegal migration was more important than membership of foreign courts , after the strasbourg judges blocked the first flights to rwanda in 2022 . offenders from " deprived " or " difficult " backgrounds could get more lenient sentences , according to the daily telegraph . the paper says that the sentencing council has for the first time published " mitigating factors " it says should be considered . many of the papers carry the story of a man from cardiff , who has been honoured for his heroism during world war two . ronald brignall , who recently celebrated his 100th birthday , scaled cardiff city hall with a sandbag in his mouth to extinguish a fire during a bombing raid in 1941 . the then 16 - year - old saved the building " by the skin of his teeth " says the daily express . sign up for our morning newsletter and get bbc news in your inbox .