four hostages have been rescued by the israeli military from central gaza , in an operation that was weeks in the planning . for israelis it brought celebration and relief . for palestinians it brought more suffering , with hospitals saying dozens of people - including children - were killed in the raid on the densely populated nuseirat camp . dubbed “ seeds of summer ”, the raid was unusually carried out in the daytime – which the israel defense forces says allowed it a better element of surprise . the mid - morning timing meant the streets were busy with people shopping at a nearby market . it also meant greater risk to israel ’ s special forces , not only getting in , but especially getting out . one special forces officer was wounded and died in hospital , israel police said . “ it was on a scale like entebbe ,” according to the idf ’ s chief spokesperson rear admiral daniel hagari referencing israel ' s rescue of 100 hostages in uganda in 1976 . acting on intelligence , and after crossing into gaza from israel , he said specialist commandos simultaneously raided two residential apartments in nuseirat where the hostages were being held . in one apartment was 26 - year - old hostage noa argamani . in the other were 41 - year - old shlomi ziv , 27 - year - old andrey kozlov and almog meir jan , 22 . mr hagari said they were not in cages but in locked rooms surrounded by guards . he said israeli commandos , having forced their way in , seized the hostages wrapping themselves around them to provide protective shields before bundling them into military vehicles outside . as they left he said they faced fierce resistance from palestinian fighters . mr hagari said israel ’ s military had planned the raid in great detail , even building mock - ups of the two apartments to train in . the us also provided intelligence support to israel for the operation , according to the bbc ' s partner cbs news which cited two us officials . mobile phone video from the scene shows people diving for cover as missiles whistled in and gunfire rang out . later footage showed bodies strewn in the street . the raid clearly involved massive force . doctors at the two hospital in central gaza said they had counted more than 70 bodies . mr hagari estimated less than a hundred , while the hamas media office said more than 200 had been killed . the bbc has been unable to verify the number of casualties .“ i have gathered the body parts of my child , my dear child ” nora abu khamees , sheltering in nuseirat , told the bbc as she crumpled in tears .“ my other child is between life and death . even my husband and my mother in law , our whole family is destroyed . this is a genocide .” ten - year - old areej al zahdneh , speaking at a nearby hospital , told us there were airstrikes , tanks and shooting .“ we couldn ’ t breathe . my sister reemaz was hit by shrapnel in her head and my five year old sister yara was also hit my shrapnel .”