us president joe biden has urged hamas to accept a new israeli proposal to end the conflict in gaza , saying that " it ' s time for this war to end ". the three - part proposal would begin with a six - week ceasefire in which the israel defense forces ( idf ) would withdraw from populated areas of gaza . there would also be a " surge " of humanitarian aid , as well as an exchange of some hostages for palestinian prisoners . the deal would eventually lead to a permanent " cessation of hostilities " and a major reconstruction plan for gaza . hamas said it views the proposal " positively ". speaking at the white house on friday , mr biden said that the first phase of the proposed plan would include a " full and complete ceasefire ", the withdrawal of idf forces from populated areas and the exchange of hostages for palestinian prisoners . " this is truly a decisive moment ," he said . " hamas says it wants a ceasefire . this deal is an opportunity to prove whether they really mean it ." the ceasefire , he added , would allow more humanitarian aid to reach the beleaguered territory , with " 600 trucks carrying aid into gaza every single day ". the second phase would see all remaining living hostages returned , including male soldiers . the ceasefire would then become " the cessation of hostilities , permanently ." among those who have urged hamas to agree to the proposal was uk foreign secretary david cameron , who said on x that the group " must accept this deal so we can see a stop in the fighting ". " we ’ ve long argued a stop in the fighting can be turned into a permanent peace if we are all prepared to take the right steps ," lord cameron added . " let ’ s seize this moment and bring this conflict to an end ." un secretary general antonio guterres also welcomed the development in a post to x , formerly known as twitter . he said the world had " witnessed too much suffering [ and ] destruction in gaza " and said it was " time to stop ". " i welcome [ president ] biden ’ s initiative [ and ] encourage all parties to seize this opportunity for a ceasefire , release of all hostages , guaranteed unhindered humanitarian access [ and ] ultimately a durable peace in the middle east ," he added . in his speech , mr biden acknowledged that negotiations between phases one and two would be difficult . as recently as a few days ago , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu was letting it be known that he was implacably opposed to agreeing to end the war as part of a ceasefire deal - making mr biden ' s reference to the war ' s end particularly significant . while the plan includes many of the details from previous , ultimately failed rounds of talks , the us calls for a permanent ceasefire appear to be a significant concession designed to try and draw hamas back to negotiations on terms they have already said they would agree to . a permanent ceasefire has been one of the group ' s key demands . the third phase of the proposal would see the final remains of any deceased israeli hostages returned , as well as a " major reconstruction plan " with us and international assistance to rebuild homes , schools and hospitals . in his remarks , mr biden acknowledged that some israelis - including officials within israel ' s government - would likely be opposed to the proposal . " i ' ve urged the leadership in israel to stand behind this deal ," he said . " regardless of whatever [ political ] pressure comes ." the us president also directly addressed the israeli people , telling them that " we can ' t lose this moment ". notably , mr biden said that hamas has now been degraded to the extent that it can no longer repeat an attack such as that which its fighters conducted on 7 october - a likely signal to the israelis that washington sees the war as done . in a statement , prime minister netanyahu insisted that the war would not end until its objectives were achieved , including the return of all hostages and the elimination of hamas ' military and governing capabilities . he said the latest plan would allow israel to uphold these principles . hamas , for its part , said that it views the proposal " positively " because of its call for a permanent ceasefire , the withdrawal of israeli forces from gaza , reconstruction and the exchange of prisoners . the group said it was ready to " deal positively and constructively " with any proposal centred on a permanent ceasefire , provided that israel " declares its explicit commitment to that ". another palestinian official familiar with the negotiations who has seen the new israeli proposal said that the document did not include a guarantee that the war will end , nor that idf troops would withdraw from gaza completely . the proposal has been transmitted to hamas through mediators based in qatar . meanwhile , us secretary of state antony blinken called his counterparts in jordan , saudi arabia and turkey to try to build a wider support for the proposal . mr blinken " emphasized that hamas should accept the deal and that every country with a relationship with hamas should press it to do so without delay ," state department spokesman matthew miller said on friday night . faced with mounting civilian casualties in gaza , president biden has faced growing domestic criticism over the level of us support for israel , and calls to do more to encourage the warring sides to negotiate . earlier this week , however , the white house said that it does not believe that israeli operations in rafah amount to a " major ground operation " that could cross a red line and trigger a possible change in us policy . the statement came after an israeli air strike and resulting fire killed at least 45 palestinians on sunday . in a separate announcement on friday , us lawmakers from both sides of the political spectrum formally invited mr netanyahu to address congress in washington . it is unclear when the address would take place . more than 36 , 000 have been killed across gaza since the start of the conflict , according to the hamas - run health ministry . the war began in october when hamas gunmen launched an unprecedented attack on israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 back to gaza as hostages .