world central kitchen ( wck ) founder josé andrés has accused israeli forces in gaza of targeting his aid workers " systematically , car by car ". monday ' s strike which killed seven members of his staff was not a mistake , he said , repeating that israeli forces had been told of their movements . wck workers from australia , canada , poland , the uk and the us were killed as well as their palestinian colleague . israel says the strike was a " grave mistake " and has apologised . it has also promised an independent investigation . according to the charity , the aid convoy was hit while leaving the deir al - balah warehouse , " where the team had unloaded more than 100 tonnes of humanitarian food aid brought to gaza on the maritime route ". the convoy was made up of three vehicles , including two that were armoured , which clearly displayed the charity ' s logo . all three were hit during the strike . speaking to reuters news agency on wednesday , the spanish - american celebrity chef said this was not a " bad luck situation where , ' oops ,' we dropped the bomb in the wrong place ". in a separate interview with israel ' s channel 12 news , mr andrés said " it was really a direct attack on clearly marked vehicles whose movements were known by everybody at the idf [ israel defense forces ]". the bodies of six of the dead wck workers have since been taken from gaza into egypt to be repatriated . their palestinian colleague was buried in his hometown in rafah , southern gaza , on tuesday . humanitarian aid to the gaza strip is in doubt after wck - a key provider of aid to the territory - suspended operations . the un announced it was pausing movements at night for at least 48 hours to evaluate the security situation . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has described the strike as unintentional . " it happens in war , we check it to the end , we are in contact with the governments , and we will do everything so that this thing does not happen again ," mr netanyahu said on tuesday . idf chief of general staff herzi halevi called the incident a " grave mistake " and said " it shouldn ' t have happened ," blaming the strike on misidentification . us president joe biden has condemned the strike , accusing israel of not doing enough to protect aid workers . " the united states has repeatedly urged israel to deconflict their military operations against hamas with humanitarian operations , in order to avoid civilian casualties ," mr biden said . three of the killed aid workers were british nationals . a polish national , an australian , a palestinian and a dual us - canadian citizen were also killed . uk prime minister rishi sunak spoke to mr netanyahu on tuesday . on the call , he described the situation in gaza as " increasingly intolerable " and " demanded a thorough and transparent independent investigation " into the killing of the aid workers . mr sunak added that israel needed to end restrictions on humanitarian aid and protect civilians , according to a downing street statement . in other reaction : four days ago , wck said that it had distributed 42 million meals in the gaza strip - dispatching more than 1 , 700 food trucks and also sending close to 435 , 000 meals by sea . according to cogat , the israeli defence ministry body in charge of civilian policy in the occupied palestinian territories , wck is responsible for 60 % of the non - governmental aid getting into the territory . a second charity , the american near east refugee aid ( anera ), which was working closely with wck , told the bbc it was also freezing its operations in gaza . more than 196 aid workers have been killed in gaza since october , according to the us - funded aid worker security database , which records major incidents of violence against aid personnel . not all have been killed in the line of duty . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . about 130 of the hostages remain in captivity , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead . more than 32 , 916 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says .