the brothers of a cornwall aid worker killed by an air strike in gaza have said their brother " achieved so much in his lifetime ". james henderson , 33 , known as jim , was among seven aid workers who died in the israeli attack in april . his role as a security adviser was to ensure an aid convoy travelling in gaza followed safety procedures and remained on the correct route . family and friends will gather at truro cathedral on wednesday in a send - off for the humanitarian worker . brothers dan and matt henderson said they were " very proud " of jim and the legacy he left behind . matt said : " he was doing some work that he became very passionate about ." he ' s achieved so much in his life in a short period of time ." some people , maybe myself , could live another 30 odd years and not do what he ' s done ." the brothers said they would both message the former royal marine daily during his travels . matt said his brother was " very well liked locally " and had " more friends than i ' ve ever known ". dan added that jim had " walked through so many walks of life "." i don ' t really think we knew how wide a scope of jim ' s friends and people that he had real connections with until something like this happens ... it makes us very proud ," he said . mr henderson had a strong passion for rugby and was also a member of falmouth and penryn boxing club in cornwall , which is renovating and renaming itself after him ." i think that really shaped him and pushed his competitive spirit and his determination and commitment to things through boxing and through sport ," matt said . the brothers reflected on their childhood , with dan noting family holidays as " probably some of the most special times to look back on ". matt said jim also had strong connections with both of their sons . he said : " he really enjoyed spending time with my son ." one of the best things about jim is he had so many connections with so many people , he was able to have really meaningful relationships ." dan ' s little boy didn ' t have as much time , but my son had quite a few years building a really special bond with jim , and he ' s so good at that ." he was a really good uncle ." in a statement from jim ’ s fiancée jacqui and the henderson family , they said that people were " at the heart " of everything he did . they said : " whilst mourning the loss of him , and what he would have undoubtedly continued to do with his life , we also reflect on his legacy and the many people who will continue to benefit from what he started ." we love him . we miss him . we celebrate his achievements . " we know that his flame will continue to burn brightly in each and every one of us as we look to a future without his larger than life presence in it ." follow bbc cornwall on x ( formerly twitter ), facebook and instagram . send your story ideas to spotlight @ bbc . co . uk .