an israeli military report says troops did not fire at palestinians around an aid convoy but at " suspects " nearby who they deemed a threat , during a deadly incident in gaza last month . the findings follow an investigation into the events in which more than 100 palestinians were killed , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry . palestinians accused israel of shooting dead people at the convoy . israel has said most were killed being trampled or run over by the convoy . the head of the un , the eu and several countries have called for an independent investigation into the incident , which happened on 29 february at the nabulsi roundabout on the south - western edge of gaza city . in the early hours of that morning , a convoy of lorries transporting aid was surrounded by crowds of palestinians just after it had passed an israel defense forces ( idf ) checkpoint . during chaotic scenes , shots were fired by soldiers and idf surveillance footage showed lorries , which had briefly stopped , moving forward , apparently running over palestinians who had gathered around them in large numbers . the health ministry said 118 people were killed and 760 others were injured in the incident . un officials who visited gaza city ' s al - shifa hospital , one of several hospitals where casualties had been taken , the following day said they had found a large number of people with bullet wounds . on friday , the idf said it had presented the findings of a " command review " into the events to its chief of staff , lieutenant general herzi halevi . it said the review " found that idf troops did not fire at the humanitarian convoy , but did fire at a number of suspects who approached the nearby forces and posed a threat to them ". according to the review , about 12 , 000 palestinians gathered around the lorries and started looting them . it said that while this was taking place , " significant harm " was caused to civilians there from what it called a " stampede " and from people being run over . it said while that was happening , dozens of people headed towards nearby idf troops , reaching a distance of several metres from them , " and thereby posed a real threat to the forces ". " at this stage , the forces fired cautionary fire in order to distance the suspects . as the suspects continued to advance toward them , the troops fired precisely toward a number of the suspects to remove the threat ," it said . the incident is still under investigation by a fact finding and assessment mechanism - " an independent examination body " - the review said . the events caused outrage around the world , and the un security council held an emergency meeting to discuss it . an algerian - led statement blaming israel for the deaths was blocked by the us , according to the palestinian un ambassador afterwards . lorries have been transporting aid to assist gazans suffering from widespread hunger since two weeks after the war began on 7 october , but the un says deliveries meet only a fraction of the needs . the war was triggered by an unprecedented attack on israel by hamas gunmen , who killed about 1 , 200 people - mainly civilians - according to israeli tallies , and took 253 others back to gaza as hostages . gaza ' s health ministry says nearly 31 , 000 people - mostly women and children - have been killed by israel ' s offensive .