israel has cancelled a meeting in washington after the us declined to veto a un security council resolution calling for a ceasefire in gaza . the resolution , which also called for the release of all hostages , followed several failed attempts at similar measures since the 7 october attacks . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu accused the us of having " abandoned " its previous policy . meanwhile intense fighting rages between israel and hamas in gaza . the un security council ' s first resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire came after calls for urgent action to avert a famine in gaza . since the start of the conflict , the us has used its veto power to block three security council resolutions calling for pauses in the fighting or a ceasefire . another two have been vetoed by both russia and china . on monday , the us abstained on a resolution that called for an " immediate " ceasefire for the rest of the month of ramadan - two weeks - and the " immediate and unconditional release of all hostages ". the 14 other members of the council , including the uk , voted in favour , meaning the resolution passed . while washington has taken an increasingly tougher stance on israel it insisted its abstention did not mark a shift in policy . but mr netanyahu said the un resolution did not make the demand for a ceasefire conditional on the release of the hostages , as the us and israel had both argued it should . israel believes hamas and its allies are still holding about 130 hostages in gaza , including 33 presumed dead . " today ' s resolution gives hamas hope that international pressure will force israel to accept a ceasefire without the release of our hostages , thus harming both the war effort and the effort to release the hostages ," mr netanyahu ' s office said in a statement . it added that , " in light of the change in the us position ", a visit by an israeli delegation to the us this week would not go ahead . israeli and us officials had been due to meet to discuss israel ' s planned offensive in the southern gaza city of rafah , where some 1 . 5 million palestinians have sought shelter , having fled the fighting elsewhere in gaza . us secretary of state antony blinken has said publicly that a ground operation in rafah risks killing more civilians and is " not the way " to defeat hamas . on the ground there was no indication of a let up in hostilities , as israeli warplanes continued to bomb rafah . fierce gun battles also raged around hospitals in nearby khan younis and gaza city . rocket warning sirens also sounded in israeli border towns . responding to mr netanyahu ' s decision to cancel the israeli delegation ' s visit to washington , us national security council spokesman john kirby said it was " disappointing " but reiterated the us view that " a major ground offensive in rafah would be a major mistake ". mr kirby said that scheduled meetings between israeli defence minister yoav gallant and us national security advisor jake sullivan would go ahead as planned . yair lapid , israel ' s opposition leader and former prime minister , criticised mr netanyahu ' s decision , described the episode as " unnecessary " and said mr netanyahu had been " irresponsible ". " bad for israel . bad for security , bad for the economy ," he said on x , formerly twitter . " sometimes you have to say ' no ' to the americans . israel is indeed an independent country , and we do not need anyone ' s permission to defend ourselves . [ but ] it is better to keep the quarrels in closed rooms ." un security council resolutions are widely considered to be legally binding on un member states , although the us has said it does not consider monday ' s vote to be binding on israel . mr gallant has said israel will not stop the war in gaza while hostages are still being held there . the hostages were seized when hamas attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people , most of them civilians . the palestinian representative to the un , riyad mansour , welcomed the resolution but said it was overdue . " it has taken six months , over 100 , 000 palestinians killed and maimed , two million displaced , and famine , for this council to finally demand an immediate ceasefire ," he said . hamas has welcomed the vote , but also told mediators it was sticking to its original demands for a comprehensive ceasefire which include the withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza and a return of displaced palestinians to the north of the strip . the israeli prime minister ' s office described this as " unrealistic ." talks between israeli and hamas representatives continue via mediators in qatar . reports suggest that a deal currently being proposed would see 40 israeli hostages released in exchange for 800 palestinian prisoners . monday ' s resolution came amid huge concern over the dire humanitarian situation in gaza . last week , mr blinken warned that the entire population of gaza was experiencing " severe levels of acute food insecurity ". the un world food programme has also warned that , in gaza ' s two northern governorates , famine is expected to set in by may unless the flow of aid into the territory is increased . following monday ' s vote , un secretary - general antónio guterres said the resolution " must be implemented " and that " failure would be unforgivable ". early on tuesday , the british government announced that it had carried out its first airdrop of food into gaza . it said the royal air force drop included 10 tonnes of supplies : water , rice , cooking oil , flour , tinned goods and baby formula . it also repeated calls on israel to allow more aid in via gaza ' s ports and to open more land crossings into the territory .