the green party of england and wales says it is taking action after complaints about antisemitic statements made or supported by its candidates . it comes after the jewish chronicle reported that three parliamentary candidates shared " incendiary material " online . the party says it is working with lord mann , the government ' s independent advisor on antisemitism , " to better educate green representatives about anti - jewish racism ". lord mann , a former labour mp , initially wrote to the party before 2 may ' s english local elections over posts allegedly made by candidates mohamed makawi and abdul malik from october 2023 . the green party said mr makawi had has since apologised and undertaken social media training , while mr malik was " unwittingly " implicated by being tagged in the post . mr malik told the bbc he did not put up a post showing hamas spokesmen , and said he completely condemns the attacks on israel . the green party leadership confirmed they had met lord mann last week . they have issued a joint statement with him , committing to a " continued dialogue and working together to ensure that antisemitism , like all racism , has no place in green politics ". the statement adds : " the green party has taken a series of proactive steps towards these goals but understands that this will take consistent work going forward ". this week the jewish chronicle reported that three parliamentary candidates shared " incendiary material " online . the bbc has not been able to view the posts on social media , but has tried to contact all three people involved to ask if they wish to respond . according to the jewish chronicle , elizabeth waight , the green candidate in bethnal green and stepney , re - posted a video on instagram in march this year in which a woman said : " what ' s left for the zionists [ is ] to eat the flesh and drink the blood of the palestinians … i think this will happen soon ." the jewish chronicle also alleges that chingford and wood green candidate chris brody uploaded links to an article that suggested that the 9 / 11 and october 7 terror attacks were " false flag operations executed to open the path toward more slaughter and mayhem ". the newspaper also highlights bristol east candidate naseem talukdar , who is said to have circulated comparisons between the holocaust and the war in gaza and " liked " a video clip in which anti - israel activist david miller says " we have to destroy zionism ". green party sources say the allegations will be assessed as to whether disciplinary action , training or support would be the most appropriate response . a party spokesperson said : " the allegations raised are serious and are being treated as such . at this stage it would be inappropriate for us to comment further on the examples raised ." it has been suggested to the bbc that the party machinery is stretched as it tries to sift through a number of cases of potential antisemitism that have been raised in recent weeks . lord mann believes all political parties must have robust systems in place to deal with complaints . the green party has taken a pro - ceasefire stance on the war in gaza since october , and is now calling for tougher action against israel , through boycotts , divestment and sanctions . in a further sign that the leadership is concerned about being seen to have become a haven for those with antisemitic views , the party released a joint letter from jewish and muslim greens , saying they are " united against antisemitism and islamophobia "." together , we oppose any efforts to exploit the ongoing tragedy in israel - palestine to foster division , intensify antisemitism , islamophobia and other forms of racism ", it reads .