a truce between israel and the palestinian group hamas in gaza was never going to be easy . weeks of talks have failed to produce agreement . but international pressure is growing . perhaps the biggest sign is the biden administration sending william burns , the head of the cia , for the latest round of talks in cairo . hamas has , in public at least , stuck with its initial demands of a permanent ceasefire , the complete withdrawal of israeli troops and the return of displaced palestinians to northern parts of the territory without restrictions . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu meanwhile insists that israel will continue fighting until hamas is destroyed and hostages the group is holding are free . " there ' s a lot more american pressure on israel , and on egypt and qatar to put pressure on hamas . that ' s obvious ," said gershon baskin , who helped negotiate a deal with hamas for the release of israeli soldier gilad shalit in 2011 . " the fact that the head of the cia showed up , which required all the negotiators to be there at the highest level . that ' s indicative of increased american pressure ." but that does not mean a deal is at hand . israeli officials have indicated willingness to make some concessions amid intensifying frustration among the country ' s main allies , including the us . earlier this week , the israeli defence minister , yoav gallant , suggested that now was the right time for a truce . any deal is expected to see the release of some of the hostages captured in the hamas attacks in return for palestinian prisoners being held in israeli jails , which was the basis for a truce that led to a temporary pause in hostilities in november . according to israeli authorities , 133 people remain captive in gaza , although at least 30 have already been confirmed dead . under the latest us proposal , an initial phase of a six - week ceasefire would see hamas release 40 hostages who are alive , with the priority being given to female captives including soldiers , men over the age of 50 and those with serious medical conditions . israel would then release at least 700 palestinians , including about 100 who are serving life sentences for killing israelis , which has proved controversial in israel in the past . but hamas has reportedly told negotiators it is not holding 40 people in this category , raising the prospect that many more hostages than previously thought have died or that they could be in the hands of other armed groups , such as palestinian islamic jihad . in israel , mr netanyahu ' s room for manoeuvre is limited by pressure from different parts of society and politics . while most of the israeli public remain supportive of the war , there are growing calls for him to agree to a deal for the release of the hostages . the families have held large protests , accusing the prime minister of not making the captives ' return a priority and of being more concerned with his own political survival . calls for mr netanyahu to resign are on the rise too . divisions have intensified within mr netanyahu ' s governing coalition , which includes far - right , ultranationalist allies who refuse concessions to hamas and insist the war must go on . finance minister bezalel smotrich told the prime minister that increasing pressure on hamas was the only way to bring the hostages back and destroy the group , while national security minister itamar ben gvir explicitly threatened to bring down mr netanyahu himself if he did not go ahead with a much - promised offensive into the city of rafah , in southern gaza . israeli officials insist it is essential to enter rafah , where , they say , hamas has four operational brigades and its senior leaders could be hiding . but virtually everyone outside israel is against an offensive in the city , where about 1 . 5 million palestinians are sheltering in tents , improvised shelters and overcrowded camps , over concerns of the catastrophic impact it could have on civilians . in what could have been an attempt to counter domestic criticism , on monday , mr netanyahu said a date had already been set for a rafah operation , without giving details . " there ' s a revolt going on right now in the government , and within [ mr netanyahu ' s party ] likud , against netanyahu making any kind of deal that they don ' t think should be made ," mr baskin said . " netanyahu is not a free actor . he ' s a hostage himself within his own government ." for its part hamas has yet to give a formal response to the latest proposal , but said that while it was interested in an agreement " that puts an end to the aggression on our people ", the offer did not meet its demands . " the israeli position remains intransigent ," the group said in a statement . the white house described the group ' s response as " less than encouraging ". a final decision will probably be made by yahya sinwar , the hamas leader in gaza who is thought to be hiding in tunnels surrounded by guards and hostages . but communications with him are difficult and said to involve several intermediaries and take days . the group , mr baskin said , was also demanding more say in which palestinian prisoners would be released and that it would not agree to any of them being deported to another country , issues that could present obstacles to negotiations . hamas also believes that without guarantees of a permanent ceasefire , israel will continue to attack the group once the hostages are released . its leadership has witnessed growing international criticism of israel and may believe time is on their side to secure concessions , despite the overwhelming and immediate needs of gaza ' s devastated civilian population . the war in gaza , israel ' s response to the hamas attacks on 7 october that killed about 1 , 200 people , has killed more than 33 , 000 palestinians , according to the hamas - run health ministry , destroyed large parts of the territory , and left many on the brink of famine . " from my experience in dealing with these things , the main difficulties are whether or not the main decision maker on both sides is ready for a deal . that ' s not clear ," mr baskin said . " it ' s not clear that netanyahu is ready for a deal , it ' s not clear that [ hamas political leader in gaza yahya ] sinwar is ready for a deal . but when they are , they will find the middle ground ." perhaps unsurprisingly , a hamas spokesperson seized on mr netanyahu ' s comments about setting a date for an attack on rafah , saying it raised questions about the purpose of resuming negotiations .