former prime minister boris johnson has said it is " shameful " to call for the uk to end arms sales to israel . three britons were among seven aid workers killed in air strikes in gaza carried out by israel ' s army on monday . it has led the lib dems , snp and some labour and conservative mps to urge the uk to reassess how it supports israel . the foreign office said it keeps advice on israel ' s adherence to the law under review , adding that this is confidential . writing in his daily mail column , mr johnson said it would be " insane " for the uk to end military support , which he said would be " willing the military defeat of israel and the victory of hamas ". mr johnson , a former foreign secretary , wrote : " remember that in order to win this conflict , hamas only has to survive . all they need at the end is to hang on , rebuild , and go again . " that ' s victory for hamas ; and that is what these legal experts seem to be asking for ." more than 600 lawyers , including former supreme court justices , this week wrote to the government saying weapon exports to israel must end because the uk risks breaking international law over a " plausible risk of genocide " in gaza . israel rejects the claim of genocide as " wholly unfounded ". three britons were among the world central kitchen ( wck ) workers who died in the strikes : john chapman , 57 , james " jim " henderson , 33 , and james kirby , 47 . wck founder jose andres claimed the israeli military knew of his aid workers ' movements and targeted them " systematically , car by car ". israeli officials reacted by sacking two senior military officers over the strikes , which it has described as a " grave mistake stemming from a serious failure ". mr johnson said it was " shattering " to see the deaths , but israel was sending warnings of their attacks and " trying to use precision munitions ". foreign secretary lord david cameron previously said the uk would carefully review findings of the initial israel defense forces ( idf ) report into the incident , which was released on friday . mr johnson accused lord cameron of being silent on the issue , saying the foreign secretary had " gone into a kind of purdah " on arms sales . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the idf military operations which began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . more than 33 , 137 people have been killed in gaza since then , with 75 , 815 injured , according to the hamas - run health ministry . reacting to mr johnson ' s comments , a uk foreign office spokesman said : " we keep advice on israel ' s adherence to international humanitarian law under review and ministers act in accordance with that advice , for example when considering export licences . " the content of the government ' s advice is confidential . " decisions on export licences are based on the strategic export licensing criteria . we would make public any decision to suspend or revoke existing licences ." british arms sales to israel are lower than those of other countries , including germany and italy , and dwarfed by the billions supplied by its largest arms supplier , the us .