a group of students from the london school of economics ( lse ) have lost the first stage of a legal battle over a pro - palestine encampment set up inside a university building . the group set up the encampment within the atrium of the ground floor of the marshall building in central london on 14 may . the university began legal action to remove the group earlier this month , seeking a court order forcing the students to disband it . following a hearing at the central london county court , district judge kevin moses issued an interim possession order , requiring the group to leave the premises within 24 hours once the order is served . he said the group " are aware of the difficulties they are causing the claimants . they are aware of the difficulties they are causing to other users of the premises ". judge moses added that , while the students had the right to protest , " what it does not do is give parties an unfettered right to occupy other parties ' premises with a view to protesting , particularly when they are required to leave ". the group set up the encampment after the release of the assets in apartheid report by the lse students ' union ' s palestine society . the report claims that lse has invested £ 89m in 137 companies involved in the conflict in gaza , fossil fuels , the arms industry , or nuclear weapons production . dozens of students have since been staying at the encampment for more than a month and had vowed to remain there until lse met a series of demands , including divestment and democratisation of the financial decision - making process . lse previously said it would carefully consider the report and hoped for " peaceful dialogue ". riccardo calzavara , representing the university in court , said the students had " stormed the building " and " barricaded " themselves in the atrium last month . he said : " they may have had permission to enter the building , as they appear to be students , but they did not have permission to enter the building in order to encamp on part of it , nor have they ever had permission to remain there ." mr calzavara said in written submissions that the encampment posed an " intolerable fire risk " and caused " considerable cost , and disruption , to the claimant and other users of the marshall building ". he added that lse did not seek to evict the students because of their protest , but " because they have taken over a building of ours unlawfully ". he also acknowledged that while there was " nothing to prevent " the students from returning to the building once the court order expired , they could not " occupy it to the exclusion of others ". daniel grutters , representing three of the students , said members of the encampment were willing to make any necessary adjustments to the camp in response to safety concerns " but for leaving ", and were not blocking other people from accessing the building . he said : " this , in its essence , is an attempt by all of the defendants to educate the lse about its implicity in what it calls crimes against humanity , genocide and apartheid ." he continued : " to the extent that the claimant is relying on health and safety risks , the defendants are willing to comply with any and all health and safety adjustments and recommendations made ." he added : " seeking to remove them , only to allow them to re - enter but for spending the night , is not a decision that is maintainable ." a further hearing in the case will be held at a later date . listen to the best of bbc radio london on sounds and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your story ideas to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk