a minister who made false claims about an academic backing hamas " followed official advice ", an mp has said . forest of dean mp mark harper said science secretary michelle donelan ' s decision would have gone through " checks and balances ". but the £ 15 , 000 cost to taxpayers in damages to the academic has caused controversy . mr harper said taxpayers and the government should " stand behind " ministerial decisions . the sum was paid " without admitting any liability ", the department for science , innovation and technology ( dsit ) said . on tuesday , ms donelan retracted comments she made last year about professor kate sang , who launched a libel action after the minister tweeted a letter she had written accusing the professor of sharing " extremist views " and expressing sympathy for hamas after its 7 october attacks in israel . ms donelan said there was " no evidence " prof sang was a supporter of hamas , and that she had " misunderstood " social media posts . labour and the liberal democrats have both demanded that ms donelan pay the bill for the damages and legal costs herself , while the university and college union ( ucu ) - which represents many academics - described her position as " untenable ". " she received official advice about it and she followed the advice ," mr harper said . " i think things have obviously not ended in the way she would have wanted but she followed proper advice . " for minsters in their official capacity , my understanding is this was to do with a body that ' s connected to her department . so then i think it ' s appropriate that the taxpayer does that ." mr harper said there are " checks and balances " that ministers have to go through . " a senior official in the department has to sign these things off to make sure these things are being done properly ," he added . " but i think the principle , that if you ' re doing things in a ministerial capacity , that the tax payer and the government stands behind you , is the right one . otherwise you ' d never get anyone willing to be a minister to make decisions about anything ." follow bbc bristol on facebook , x and instagram . send your story ideas to us on email or via whatsapp on 0800 313 4630