in the israeli - occupied west bank , a group of israeli settlers storm a palestinian village and , captured on cctv , a masked man sets fire to a car parked in a garage , under the watch of at least three israeli soldiers . the incident was part of a rampage by israeli settlers that , according to local officials , killed four palestinians over four days . the violence was triggered by the disappearance of 14 - year - old binyamin ahimeir , who went missing on friday after leaving his settler outpost to herd sheep near the palestinian village of mughayir , in the ramallah area . his body was found a day later , and the israel defense forces ( idf ) said he had been killed in a " terrorist attack ". amid the search for the boy , dozens of settlers , some of them armed , raided mughayir . they burned homes and cars , and killed a 25 - year - old man named jihad abu alia with a shot in the chest , according to palestinian officials . sameh abu alia , his cousin , said jihad , who would get married in june , was trying to prevent the settlers from storming the family ' s house . " it wasn ' t the first time settlers attacked us . but we weren ' t expecting a huge number of them ," he said . " they shot at the water tanks , the electricity network , and the internet . they were planning to isolate us from the outside world ." settlers , armed with guns and stones , returned to the village on saturday . shaul golan , a photographer for the israeli newspaper yedioth ahronoth , said he was attacked by a group of between 20 to 30 people , some of whom were armed and wearing idf uniforms , as he hid under a table in one of the burned houses while trying to cover the rampage . " they beat me mercilessly , breaking my finger and taking my bag to burn all of the photography equipment inside ," he said in an interview published on the newspaper ' s website . " i laid on the floor , as every one of them kicked me in the head and stomachâ €¦ they had hate in their eyes ." violence spread to other areas . in the village of dayr dibwan , cctv video shared by yesh din , an israeli human rights group which monitors west bank violence , showed masked settlers entering a private garage and setting a vehicle on fire , while israeli soldiers stand watching . responding to the footage , the idf said the incident was being examined and that the soldiers would " be dealt with accordingly ", reuters reported . in nearby beitin on saturday a 17 - year - old boy , omar hamed , was killed after being hit by a bullet in the head in an attack by a group of 30 settlers who had been accompanied by israeli forces , palestinian officials said . it was not clear whether he was shot by israeli forces or settlers . after the boy ' s body was found , israeli authorities warned people against revenge . but across the west bank , yesh din received reports of attacks on 10 villages and towns , with extensive damage to property and livestock . " the attacks were of an unprecedented scale . i can ' t remember a day when we saw so many places attacked at once . it was a very violent day with hundreds of settlers ," said ziv stahl , the group ' s director . " in many places there were soldiers who were not only allowing them to do whatever they wanted but also providing them protection . we see that in a lot of cases , but [ on saturday ] it was caught on camera ". on monday , two palestinians - 30 - year - old abdul rahman bani fadel and 21 - year - old mohammad bani jamea - were shot dead during an attack by dozens of settlers , many of them armed , near the town of aqraba , south - east of nablus in the northern west bank , according to local officials . the israeli military said it was looking into the incident . " we ' re concerned that the settlers might come back ," salah bani jaber , the mayor of aqraba , said . " the israeli army and police are not preventing them from attacking palestinian villages and towns ... " the settlers are planning to push us out from our land ." across the west bank , israeli raids killed three palestinians - 17 - year - old yazan ishtayeh in nablus on monday , and mohammad shahmawi , 22 , and mohammad rasoul daraghmeh , 26 , a suspected hamas member , in tubas on friday . around 700 , 000 israelis live in 160 settlements alongside 2 . 7 million palestinians in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem , according to the settlement watchdog peace now . almost all of the international community regards the settlements as illegal , although israel disputes this . there are also about 160 so - called outposts , or small settlements which have been built without official approval and are considered illegal under israeli law . tensions were already high before 7 october , when hamas launched a deadly attack on israel , sparking the war in gaza . since then , more than 460 palestinians have been killed in the west bank , according to the palestinian health ministry . those deaths includes armed fighters amid a rise in raids by the israeli military on palestinian towns and villages . in the same period , at least 13 israelis have been killed in the west bank , including two members of israel ' s security forces . human rights groups say incidents of settler attacks , and alleged involvement of the security forces , are rarely fully investigated , with impunity virtually the norm . " there ' s no accountability ," ms stahl , from yesh din , said . the recent violence has sparked concerns from foreign governments , and the us , israel ' s main ally , has imposed sanctions on several israeli outposts and settlers involved in attacks on palestinians . on tuesday , the un human rights office called on israeli security forces to end what it called their active participation in and support for attacks by settlers in the west bank . additional reporting by alaa daraghme in the west bank and narinder kalsi in jerusalem