a palestinian man has been killed in the occupied west bank and 25 are reported hurt after dozens of jewish settlers stormed a village during an israeli search for a missing teenager . israeli troops intervened after dozens of settlers stormed al - mughayyir armed with guns and stones . it is not yet clear whether the man who died , jehad abu alia , 26 , was shot by an armed settler or israeli soldier . the palestinian red crescent said live fire hit at least eight people . missing benjamin ahimeir , 14 , has not been found . a huge search is under way . local media said the circumstances around the teenager ' s disappearance were still unknown and the military was not sure if the incident was terrorism - related . troops have set up roadblocks in the area . israeli media reported that benjamin achimeir had left " gal farm " in the settler outpost of malachei shalom early on friday , and had not been seen since . he had been grazing sheep , and the sheep returned to the farm without him , police said . his sister hannah , quoted by afp news agency , said he was familiar with the area . separately , israeli forces shot and killed two west bank palestinians . one was confirmed by hamas to be a local commander of the group . the israeli military say mohammed daraghmeh was killed in a shoot - out with their troops . there has been a surge in violence in the west bank since the start of the war in the gaza strip , triggered by hamas ' s deadly attacks in israel on 7 october , which killed some 1 , 200 people , mostly civilians . at al - mughayyir , videos posted on x by an israeli human rights group , yesh din , show dark clouds of smoke billowing from burning cars next to an olive orchard , as gunshots are heard . social media pictures also show what appears to be a crowd of masked settlers . the father of jehad abu alia , the 26 - year - old who was shot , spoke from a hospital in ramallah , where jehad ' s body had been taken . " my son went with others to defend our land and honour , and this is what happened ," afif abu alia said . the idf says its troops , and not settlers , opened fire at stone - throwing palestinians as " violent disturbances erupted at several points in the area ". troops managed to remove the settlers who had entered the village , it said . " as of this moment , the violent riots have been dispersed and there are no israeli civilians present within the town ," the idf said . the palestinian prime minister , mohammad mustafa , has condemned the attack . foreign governments including israel ' s closest ally , the us , have repeatedly raised concerns over a surge in settler violence against palestinians in the west bank since israel began its military campaign against hamas in gaza . israel has built about 160 settlements housing some 700 , 000 jews since it occupied west bank and east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war . the international community considers the settlements illegal , though israel disputes this . the palestinian health ministry says at least 460 palestinians have been killed by israeli forces or settlers in the west bank since 7 october . israeli sources say at least 13 israelis have been killed there by palestinians in the same period . the surge in west bank violence has prompted the us , uk and france to impose sanctions on some settlers for the first time . but the casualties there are dwarfed by the gaza war : more than 33 , 600 gazans , the majority of them civilians , have been killed during israel ' s campaign , the hamas - run health ministry says . on 7 october gunmen also took more than 250 people hostage . israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . the latest violence comes as israel remains on high alert after us officials warned of an imminent iranian strike against israel . iran has vowed to retaliate for last week ' s deadly air strike on an iranian diplomatic compound in syria , in which several senior iranian military figures died . israel has not commented but is widely considered to have carried out that attack targeting the elite quds force of iran ' s revolutionary guard corps .