hamas says it has informed qatari and egyptian mediators that it has accepted their proposal for a new gaza ceasefire and hostage release deal with israel . " the ball is now in israel ' s court ," an official in the palestinian group said . israeli pm benjamin netanyahu said the proposal accepted by hamas was " far from israel ' s basic requirements " but negotiations would continue . earlier israel carried out air strikes on rafah after warning palestinians to evacuate parts of the city . it has long threatened an offensive against hamas hold - outs in the southern city . tens of thousands of residents are believed to be affected by the operation and many were seen cramming into vehicles or on to donkey carts on monday . a hamas official called the evacuation order for eastern parts of rafah , which was followed by israeli air strikes , a " dangerous escalation ". the basis of the ceasefire deal is a weeks - long pause in fighting and the release of several dozen hostages held by hamas . on monday evening , hamas put out a statement saying its political leader , ismail haniyeh , had informed qatar ' s prime minister and egypt ' s intelligence chief of its " approval of their proposal regarding a ceasefire agreement ". a senior palestinian official familiar with the proposal told the bbc that hamas had agreed to end " hostile activity forever " if the conditions were met . that phrase hinted that hamas might be contemplating the end of its armed struggle , although no further details were provided . it would come at the conclusion of a two - phase ceasefire deal , with each phase lasting 42 days . the first phase would include the release of the female israeli soldiers being held hostage , each in exchange for 50 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails , including some who are serving life sentences . during this period , israeli troops would remain within gaza . but within 11 days of the ceasefire coming into force , israel would begin dismantling its military facilities in the centre of the territory and would withdraw from salah al - din road , which is the main north - south route , and the coastal road . after 11 days , displaced palestinians would be allowed to return to the north . the second phase would conclude with a " sustainable long period of calm " and the complete lifting of the blockade of gaza , according to the official . " the ball is now in the court of [ israel ], whether it will agree to the ceasefire agreement or obstruct it ," a senior hamas official told afp news agency . the were celebrations in gaza as news of the hamas statement spread . but an unnamed israeli official swiftly told reuters news agency that the proposal hamas had accepted was a " softened " version of an egyptian proposal which included " far - reaching " conclusions that israel could not accept . " this would appear to be a ruse intended to make israel look like the side refusing a deal ," the official said . later , prime minister netanyahu ' s office said in a statement : " even though the hamas proposal is far from israel ' s basic requirements , israel will send a delegation of mediators to exhaust the possibility of reaching an agreement under conditions acceptable to israel ." at the same time , israel ' s war cabinet had decided to continue the rafah operation " to exert military pressure on hamas to advance our war aims : the release of our hostages , destroy hamas ' s military and governing capabilities and ensure that gaza does not pose a threat to israel in the future ", it added . the statement came at the same time as the israeli military announced it was striking hamas targets in eastern rafah . us state department spokesman matthew miller told reporters that the us - which is attempting to broker a deal along with qatar and egypt - was reviewing hamas ' s response and " discussing it with our partners ". " we continue to believe that a hostage deal is in the best interests of the israeli people . it ' s in the best interests of the palestinian people ," he added . " it would bring an immediate ceasefire . it would allow increased movement of humanitarian assistance and so we ' re going to continue to work to try to reach one ." the war began when hamas gunmen stormed into southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing more than 250 hostages . more than 34 , 700 people have been killed in gaza during the ensuing israeli military campaign , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . israel says 128 hostages remain unaccounted for in gaza , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead .