israel ' s english - language government spokesman eylon levy has been suspended , the bbc has confirmed . the israeli prime minister ' s office has not given a reason . but it is understood that the decision is linked to a recent online row with the uk foreign secretary , lord cameron . mr levy has so far not commented . on 8 march , he wrote a now - deleted post on x responding to another one from lord cameron that urged israel " to allow more [ aid ] trucks into gaza ". " i hope you are also aware there are no limits on the entry of food , water , medicine , or shelter equipment into gaza , and in fact the crossings have excess capacity ," mr levy replied . " test us . send another 100 trucks a day to kerem shalom and we ' ll get them in ," he added , referring to an israeli - controlled border crossing . two days earlier , he had written another post criticising a statement issued by lord cameron after a meeting with an israeli minister in london . israel ' s channel 12 news reported on tuesday that mr levy was suspended shortly after the uk foreign office wrote to israel ' s foreign ministry to express its " surprise " and seek clarification on whether mr levy ' s posts represented the israeli government ' s official position . the financial times cited a person familiar with the matter as characterising the british query as : " is this the way allies speak to each other ?" on thursday , the bbc confirmed israeli media reports saying that the prime minister ' s office had suspended mr levy . there was no immediate response from mr levy . but he described himself as an israeli government spokesman in several posts on x on tuesday . mr levy , who is in his 30s , was born in the uk and emigrated to israel in 2014 . he served in cogat , the israeli defence ministry body that oversees policy for the palestinian territories , worked as a tv news anchor and was most recently international media adviser to president isaac herzog . he rose to international prominence after becoming a government spokesperson following hamas ' s 7 october attacks on israel and the start of the war in gaza , and frequently being interviewed by english - language broadcasters , including the bbc . on tuesday , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu reportedly made critical remarks about israel ' s english - language public diplomacy during a closed - door meeting with two parliamentary committees . channel 12 quoted him as saying : " there simply are no people . you are surrounded by people who can ' t put two words together [ in english ]." in response to that report , his office said he " deeply values the work of his team and of the public diplomacy directorate that operates under him ".