the family of a british aid worker killed by an air strike in gaza have criticised the sale of arms to israel . james henderson was among seven aid workers who died in the israeli attack , which his brother called " inexcusable ". rishi sunak is under growing pressure after the strike , which also killed britons john chapman and james kirby , as well as australian , palestinian , american - canadian and polish nationals . on tuesday , the pm said the uk had a " very careful " arms licensing regime . earlier , 600 legal experts wrote to the government saying weapon exports must end because the uk risks breaking international law over a " plausible risk of genocide " in gaza . the group of world central kitchen aid workers had just unloaded more than 100 tonnes of food aid and the convoy ' s movements had been co - ordinated with the israel defense forces ( idf ), according to the charity . speaking on behalf of the family of former royal marine mr henderson , his brother - who declined to be named - told the times the killings of people on a humanitarian mission was " inexcusable ". " accountability is the only hope of justice i have ", he said . " i don ' t believe our government will hold the correct people to account , but i guarantee that our government will sell weapons to israel , which may in turn be used to kill our fellow citizens . " it ' s hard to comprehend that ." british arms sales to israel are lower than those of other countries , including germany and italy , and dwarfed by the billions supplied by its largest arms supplier , the us . but a uk ban would add to the diplomatic and political pressure on israel , at a time when its conduct in the gaza conflict is coming under renewed international scrutiny . the bbc understands there is an ongoing assessment over whether to suspend or revoke existing export licenses to israel , which is almost finished . that assessment , which will advise on the risk of israel breaching international law , is not a result of the recent air strike . in fact it may not even consider the incident , since it is looking at israel ' s actions from early 2024 . technically it is up to the business secretary to decide on issuing arms export licenses , but one mp familiar with the process said , in reality , it will be mr sunak who will make the decision when the foreign office issues its legal advice . on thursday evening , former uk foreign secretary jack straw told the bbc he believed it was " perfectly obvious " israel was breaching international law . mr straw told radio 4 ' s pm programme that israeli forces had been " caught out " by the killing of western aid workers but suggested they " would have dug in and refused any accountability at all " if all the victims had been palestinian . former supreme court president lady hale was among the lawyers , academics and retired senior judges who signed a 17 - page letter to the government on the issue of arms sales to israel . it says " serious action " is needed to " avoid uk complicity in grave breaches of international law , including potential violations of the genocide convention ". the group add that the sale of arms and weapons systems to israel " falls significantly short " of the government ' s obligations under international law , given the " plausible risk of genocide " in gaza - a situation that the letters says was highlighted in a provisional judgement issued by the international court of justice ( icj ) in january - and the worsening humanitarian situation since . speaking on bbc radio 4 ' s today programme , lord sumption , the former supreme court judge who was one of the most notable signatories , said the uk had a duty to prevent genocide and there was a " plausible case that is what is happening " in gaza . he added that the " framework of international law around war " does not mean countries can act however they want , even if they have been provoked or attacked , " however outrageously ". lord sumption continued : " it doesn ' t mean to say that you can indiscriminately slaughter innocent civilians and children . it doesn ' t mean to say you can attack aid convoys ... it doesn ' t mean to say you can spend two weeks flattening hospitals ." among other actions the letter says the government must take to meet its obligations under international law are : mr sunak called for an independent investigation into the air strike , but stopped short of saying arms sales should end , in an interview with the sun newspaper after the incident . he added that the uk had been " consistently clear " with israel that it must follow international humanitarian law . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has described the attack as unintended and " tragic ", and promised an independent investigation . it rejects the claim of genocide as " wholly unfounded ". the uk has licenced arms to israel worth over £ 574m since 2008 , when official country - level data was made available , according to pressure group campaign against arms trade ( caat ). business minister greg hands has previously told mps the figure for 2022 - £ 42m - represented 0 . 02 % of israel ' s military imports that year . arms export licences , which are granted by the business department , cannot be issued if there is a clear risk the weapons could be used in a serious violation of international humanitarian law . labour has not called for a suspension , but is urging the government to publish internal legal advice on whether israel is in breach of international law . the snp is calling for parliament to be recalled from its current easter break , ending on 15 april , to debate the issue . conservative mp paul bristow said the idea british - made arms could be used in action that kills innocent civilians in gaza " turns the stomach ." but his fellow tory mp and former home secretary suella braverman rejected a ban , telling the bbc " we owe it to israel to stand with them ." speaking during a trip to israel , she said : " i think that it would be a tragic shame if we were to walk away from our closest ally in this region ." fellow conservative mp bob seely , who sits on the foreign affairs committee , said those calling on the government to end arms sales were engaging in " shallow gesture politics ". he told bbc newsnight " the reality is that we supply 0 . 02 % of israel ' s arms imports , which is a meaninglessly small figure , and actually by blocking it , effectively , this is shallow gesture politics and nothing but ." mr seely said the uk should instead " double down " on its relationship with israel . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . about 130 of the hostages have not been released , with at least 34 of them presumed to be dead . more than 32 , 916 people have been killed in gaza since that first week of october , the hamas - run health ministry says . additional reporting by emily atkinson .