foreign secretary lord cameron has told israeli minister benny gantz that the flow of aid into gaza must increase . lord cameron told mr gantz , a retired general and member of israel ' s war cabinet , that " we are still not seeing improvements on the ground ". the two met in central london on wednesday afternoon . the foreign secretary stressed that israel , " as the occupying power " in gaza , had a legal responsibility to ensure the availability of aid . " these are tough but necessary conversations ," lord cameron posted on social media . ahead of the meeting , lord cameron said israel needed " a whole series of warnings " over the amount of aid reaching gaza during a debate on foreign affairs in the house of lords . the foreign secretary told peers on tuesday that " patience needs to run very thin " with israel as there was " dreadful suffering " in gaza , with people dying of hunger and preventable disease . lord cameron said that despite the uk pushing for more aid to get into gaza , the amount that had reached the territory in february was just half that of the previous month . international law states that an occupying power has a duty to ensure food and medical supplies to the population under its control " to the fullest extent of the means available to it ". " i spoke some weeks ago about the danger of [ the situation in gaza ] tipping into famine and the danger of illness tipping into disease and we are now at that point ," lord cameron said . he added : " so patience needs to run very thin and a whole series of warnings need to be given starting i hope with a meeting i have with minister gantz when he visits the uk ." mr gantz , who is travelling against the wishes of prime minister benjamin netanyahu , is visiting london after his trip to washington . the moderate chairman of israel ' s national unity party , mr gantz has proved a stiff political opponent to mr netanyahu , despite joining him as a member of his war cabinet after the attack nearly five months ago by hamas that triggered the conflict . while he was in the united states , vice - president kamala harris expressed " deep concern " over the situation in gaza and urged israel to allow more aid in , while calling on hamas to accept terms for a ceasefire . on 7 october , hamas gunmen stormed across gaza ' s border into israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 others as hostages . in response , israel launched a campaign of air strikes and a ground invasion of the territory . more than 30 , 700 palestinians have been killed , and tens of thousands injured by israeli strikes since the start of the war , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry .