iran has warned israel that any " reckless " retaliation to its unprecedented aerial attack would receive a " much stronger response ". more than 300 drones and missiles were launched at israel by iran overnight , following the 1 april israeli strike on iran ' s consulate in syria . israel said it and allies had intercepted 99 % of the weapons . it marked iran ' s first direct attack on israel , with the two countries having waged a years - long shadow war . world leaders have urged restraint amid concerns about a major escalation in tensions in the middle east . following the attack , israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu vowed " together we will win ", but it is unclear how his country plans to respond . last week , israel ' s defence and foreign ministers warned that if iran attacked israel , israel would strike back inside iran . an attack had been anticipated after the strike on the damascus consulate killed seven islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) officers . in a statement reported by afp , iran ' s president ebrahim raisi said " if the zionist regime [ israel ] or its supporters demonstrate reckless behaviour , they will receive a decisive and much stronger response ". iran ' s irgc - the most powerful branch of its armed forces - said it had launched the attack " in retaliation against the zionist regime ' s [ israel ] repeated crimes , including the attack on the iranian embassy ' s consulate in damascus ". following the strikes the iranian mission to the un said " the matter can be deemed concluded ". iranian armed forces chief of staff maj gen mohammad bagheri told state tv the us had been warned - via switzerland - that american backing of an israeli retaliation would result in us regional bases being targeted . iranian foreign minister hossein amir - abdollahian said he had told the us attacks against israel will be " limited " and for self - defence , reuters news agency reported . us president joe biden spoke to mr netanyahu following the launch of the iranian attack and reaffirmed " america ' s ironclad commitment to the security of israel ". he condemned the " unprecedented " attack on israel and said the us had helped israel and other allies to " take down nearly all " of the missiles and drones . sirens sounded across israel and loud explosions were heard over jerusalem , with air defence systems shooting down objects over the city . the new york times , citing israeli intelligence sources , reported that the main targets appeared to be military instillations in the occupied golan heights . an israeli military spokesman said around 360 munitions had been fired - including 170 explosive drones , 30 cruise missiles and 120 ballistic missiles - but israel has said very little damage had been done . israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesman rear adm daniel hagari said some iranian missiles had hit inside israel , causing minor damage to a military base but no casualties . he said a 10 - year - old bedouin girl had been severely injured by shrapnel from falling debris in the southern arad region . world leaders will be considering their response to the major escalation in tensions between israel and iran , with many condemning the attack or warning of the dangers of escalation . mr biden said he would convene " my fellow g7 leaders to co - ordinate a united diplomatic response to iran ' s brazen attack ". the un security council will also hold an emergency meeting later , its president vanessa frazier said . un secretary general antónio guterres issued a statement saying he " strongly condemn [ ed ] the serious escalation represented by the large - scale attack launched on israel " by iran . he called for " an immediate cessation of these hostilities " and for all sides to exercise maximum restraint . uk prime minister rishi sunak called the strikes " reckless ", while the european union ' s foreign affairs chief josep borrell said it was a " grave threat to regional security ". china ' s foreign ministry urged restraint , characterising it as " the latest spillover of the gaza conflict ", while russia ' s foreign ministry expressed " extreme concern over another dangerous escalation ". on sunday , france recommended its citizens in iran should temporarily leave the country due to the risk of military escalation . speaking to crowds at the vatican on sunday , pope francis made a " heartfelt appeal for a halt to any action that could fuel a spiral of violence with the risk of dragging the middle east into an even greater conflict ". there have been increased tensions in the middle east since the 7 october hamas attacks on israel , in which about 1 , 200 people , mostly civilians , were killed and more than 250 others were taken hostage . the subsequent israeli military operation in gaza has killed 33 , 729 people , mostly civilians , according to the hamas - run health ministry . meanwhile israel ' s spy agency mossad said hamas negotiators had rejected the most recent proposal put forward by mediators in peace talks . in a statement it said this proved hamas ' gaza leader yahya sinwar " does not want a humanitarian deal and the return of the hostages " and was " continuing to exploit the tension with iran ". on saturday , hamas said it stood by its demand for a permanent ceasefire in the gaza war , a complete israeli withdrawal from the gaza strip , a return of palestinians displaced by the fighting to their homes , and increased humanitarian aid to the territory .