a temporary pier built by the us military to deliver aid to gaza has been damaged by heavy seas and will take at least a week to be repaired , according to us officials . us forces began building the floating pier - which is attached to gaza ' s shoreline by a temporary causeway - several weeks ago . the causeway portion of the project has now reportedly broken off and will have to be repaired before being returned to its position . humanitarian organisations have warned that the amount of aid reaching palestinians in gaza is only a fraction of what is required to meet the needs of its population . the pier , which was first announced by us officials in march , is comprised of two main components : a large floating dock made up of steel segments and a two - lane , 1 , 800ft ( 548m ) causeway and pier . the causeway part of the project is composed of a series of interconnected , 40ft ( 12m ) steel pieces linked together and attached to shore . on tuesday , the pentagon confirmed that a portion of the causeway broke away in heavy seas . while it is tethered to gaza ' s shoreline , the piece will need to be removed and taken to the israeli port of ashod to be repaired before it can be re - attached to the causeway and back in action . according to pentagon spokeswoman sabrina singh , the pier will be removed over the next two days with the help of the israeli navy . the repairs will take more than a week , she added . ms singh said weather conditions in the area had not created an " optimal environment " for the pier ' s deployment , but that defence officials remain confident it would be operational again soon . " i can ' t predict the weather ," she said . “ but we believe that given the time of year , we will be able to re - anchor this pier ." mick mulroy , a former deputy assistant secretary of defence for the middle east and one of the founders of fogbow , a private firm involved in the gaza pier plan , told the bbc that weather - related delays were " expected " to " pose challenges "." but those challenges can be overcome , and the mission itself is worth the effort ," he said . " people are in desperate need of aid and this is one means to deliver it ." on 17 may , the us military confirmed that the first shipments of humanitarian aid were delivered into gaza via the pier , but in a separate incident last weekend four vessels supporting the pier became unmoored in " heavy sea states ", beaching two of them . in an earlier incident , three us soldiers taking part in the gaza pier mission were also injured , one of whom was in critical condition and evacuated to a hospital in israel . the reuters news agency quoted the un world food programme ( wfp ) spokesperson as saying that the un has transported a total of 137 lorries of aid from the pier - approximately 900 metric tonnes - since it began operating . at the white house on tuesday , national security council spokesman john kirby said the pier was never expected to " supplant " aid reaching gaza via land crossings , but instead could be a " force multiplier ". the pentagon estimates that more than 1 , 000 tonnes have been delivered to shore , with just over 900 tonnes reaching un warehouses . despite mounting concerns over the worsening humanitarian situation in gaza , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has said he remains committed to " total victory " in rafah , hamas ' last remaining urban stronghold in the south of the strip . israel ' s military campaign in gaza began after gunmen from hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 others to gaza as hostages . more than 36 , 000 palestinians have been killed in the war since then , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry .