an iranian teenager was sexually assaulted and killed by three men working for iran ' s security forces , a leaked document understood to have been written by those forces says . it has let us map what happened to 16 - year - old nika shakarami who vanished from an anti - regime protest in 2022 . her body was found nine days later . the government claimed she killed herself . we put the report ' s allegations to iran ' s government and its revolutionary guards . they did not respond . marked " highly confidential ", the report summarises a hearing on nika ' s case held by the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) - the security force that defends the country ' s islamic establishment . it includes what it says are the names of her killers and the senior commanders who tried to hide the truth . it contains disturbing details of events in the back of an undercover van in which security forces were restraining nika . these include : there are numerous fake iranian official documents in circulation , so the bbc spent months checking every detail with multiple sources . our extensive investigations indicate the papers we obtained do chronicle the teenager ' s last movements . nika shakarami ' s disappearance and death were widely reported , and her picture has become synonymous with the fight by women in iran for greater freedoms . as street protests spread across iran in the autumn of 2022 , her name was shouted by crowds furious at the country ' s strict rules on the compulsory veil [ hijab ]. the woman , life , freedom movement had been sparked just days earlier by the death of a 22 - year - old woman , mahsa amini . she died from injuries sustained in police custody according to a un fact - finding mission after being accused of not wearing her hijab properly . in nika ' s case , her family found her body in a mortuary more than a week after she disappeared from a protest . but iran ' s authorities denied nika ' s death was connected to the demonstration and , after conducting their own investigation , said that she had died by suicide . just before she vanished , nika was filmed on the evening of 20 september near laleh park in central tehran , standing on a dumpster setting fire to hijabs . others around her chanted " death to the dictator " - referring to iran ' s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei . what she could not have known at the time is that she was being watched , as the classified report makes clear . addressed to the irgc ' s commander - in - chief , it says it is based on extensive talks with its teams that policed that protest . monitoring the demonstration were several undercover security units , the document ' s account begins . it says one of these - team 12 - suspected the teenager " of leadership , due to her unconventional behaviour and repeated calls with her mobile phone ". the team sent one of its operatives into the crowd , posing as a protester , to confirm nika was indeed one of the demonstration ' s leaders . then , according to the report , he called in his team to arrest her . but she fled . her aunt had previously told bbc persian that nika rang a friend that night to say she was being chased by security forces . almost an hour passed before she was spotted again , says the report , when she was detained and put in the team ' s vehicle - an unmarked freezer van . nika was in the rear compartment with three team 12 members - arash kalhor , sadegh monjazy , and behrooz sadeghy . their team leader morteza jalil was up front with the driver . the group then attempted to find somewhere to take her , the report says . they tried a temporary police camp nearby but were turned away because it was overcrowded . so they continued to a detention centre , a 35 - minute drive away , whose commander initially agreed to admit nika . but then he changed his mind . " the accused [ nika ] was constantly swearing and chanting ," he told investigators for the report . " at that time , there were 14 other female detainees at the station and my perception was that she could agitate the others . " i was worried she would cause a riot ". morteza jalil once again contacted his irgc hq for advice , says the report , and was told to head to tehran ' s notorious evin prison . en route , he said he began to hear crashing noises behind him coming from the pitch - dark rear compartment of the van . we know what he was hearing , from the testimony outlined in the document from the men guarding nika in the back . one of them , behrooz sadeghy , said as soon as she had been put back into the van after being rejected by the detention centre , nika had started to swear and shout . " arash kalhor gagged her mouth with his socks but she started struggling . then sadegh [ monjazy ] laid her on the chest freezer and sat on her . the situation calmed ," he told investigators . " i don ' t know what happened , but after a few minutes she started swearing . i couldn ' t see anything , i could only hear fighting and bashing ." but arash kalhor gave further chilling details . he says he briefly turned on his phone torch and saw sadegh monjazy "[ has ] put his hand inside her trousers ". arash kalhor said after that they lost control . " he doesn ' t knowâ €¦ who [ was doing it ], but he could hearâ €¦ the baton hitting the accused [ nika ]... ' i started to kick and punch but really didn ' t know if i was hitting our guys or the accused .'" but sadegh monjazy contradicted arash kalhor ' s statement , which he said was motivated by professional jealousy . he denied putting his hand in her trousers - but said he could not deny that he became " aroused " while sitting on her and touched nika ' s buttocks . he said this provoked nika - despite the fact her hands were tied behind her back - to scratch him and jolt so that he fell over . " she kicked at my face , so i had to defend myself ." from the van ' s cabin , morteza jalil ordered the driver to pull over . he opened the rear door to discover nika ' s lifeless body . he said he cleaned the blood from her face and head - " which were not in a good condition ". this echoes the state in which nika ' s mother says she eventually found her daughter in the mortuary , and nika ' s death certificate - obtained by bbc persian in october 2022 - which states she was killed by " multiple injuries caused by blows with a hard object ". team leader morteza jalil admitted he didn ' t try to find out what had happened . " i was only thinking about how to transfer her and didn ' t ask any questions of anyone . i only asked : ' is she breathing ?' i think it was behrooz sadeghy who answered , ' no , she is dead '." with a killing on his hands , jalil called the irgc ' s hq for a third time . nika ' s last breath bbc eye investigates a shocking report , written by the islamic revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ), showing how nika shakarami was hunted down , sexually assaulted and bludgeoned to death . watch now on bbc iplayer ( uk only ) or on the bbc world service youtube channel ( outside uk ) on this occasion , he spoke to a more senior officer , codenamed " naeem 16 ". " we already had deaths in our stations , and i didn ' t want the number to rise to 20 ," naeem 16 told the investigation . " bringing her to the base wouldn ' t have solved any problems ." he told jalil to simply " dump her on the street ". jalil said they left nika ' s body in a quiet street under tehran ' s yadegar - e - emam highway . the report concludes that a sexual assault caused the fight in the rear compartment of the van , and that strikes from team 12 had caused nika ' s death . " three batons and three tasers were all used . it is not clear which one of the blows was the fatal one ," it says . the report contradicts the government ' s narrative of what happened to nika . nearly a month after her funeral , state television broadcast the results of the official investigation , which said nika had jumped to her death from a building . it showed cctv of a person it claimed was nika entering an apartment block , but nika ' s mother told bbc persian in a phone interview that she could not " under any circumstances , confirm that person is nika ". " we all know that they are lying ," nasrin shakarami later told a bbc documentary , discussing authorities ' claims about the deaths of protesters . the bbc eye investigation was not just concerned with the content of the report , but whether it could be trusted as an artefact . sometimes , what appear to be official iranian documents and other materials circulating on the internet are found to have been faked . most of these counterfeit documents , however , are easy to spot because they clearly diverge from official formatting - showing erroneous spacing and letter headings , or containing significant grammatical or spelling errors . they might also include the wrong official slogan or logo for the year they purport to originate from , or an anachronistic title for a government agency or department , for example . another indicator is language that does not match the very specific style that tends to be used by iranian official bodies . the document our investigation centred on contained a few such inconsistencies . for instance , the " naja " police force quoted in the report was known as " faraja " at the time . therefore , to further test the document ' s veracity , we gave it to a former iranian intelligence officer who has seen hundreds of legitimate ones . he rang the irgc archive - using an official code issued each day to senior intelligence officers in iran - to check if the case file this report was allegedly part of really existed and what it was about . he received confirmation that it did , and that the report ' s number showed it was part of a 322 - page case file on anti - government protesters in 2022 . while we can never be 100 % certain , this gave us confidence that it is genuine . his unique access to the irgc also helped us iron out another mystery - the identity of " naeem 16 ", the man who told the team to dump nika ' s body . the former intelligence officer did this by making another call - this time to someone inside iran ' s military apparatus . he was told naeem 16 is the call sign for a captain mohammad zamani , serving in the irgc . that name is listed as one of the attendees at the five - hour hearing into nika ' s death that the report summarises . we put the allegations to the irgc and the iranian government . they did not respond . the men responsible for nika ' s death were not punished , so far as we know . a clue as to why that might be the case can be found in the document itself . all of team 12 - who were at the hearing - are listed in the report and to the right of their names is the group to which they belong : " hezbollah ". this refers to an iranian paramilitary group , hezbollah , unrelated to the lebanese group of the same name . its members are used by the irgc but sometimes operate outside its jurisdiction , as the report seems to acknowledge : " since the above persons belonged to the forces of hezbollah , following up this case beyond obtaining the necessary commitments and security guarantees has not been possible ," it says . irgc officer naeem 16 , on the other hand , was given a written reprimand , it adds . as many as 551 protesters were killed by security forces during iran ' s woman , life , freedom movement , most of them by gunfire , according to the un ' s fact - finding mission . the protests subsided after a few months due to the bloody crackdown by security forces . there followed a lull in activity by iran ' s morality police , but a new crackdown on breaches of the islamic dress code began earlier this month . among those to have been arrested is nika ' s elder sister , aida ..