tens of thousands of israelis , many from nationalist groups , have taken part in the annual jerusalem day flag march to mark the capture of the east of the city in the 1967 war . crowds waving israeli flags and shouting anti - arab slogans gathered outside the old city ’ s damascus gate before marching to the western wall through the muslim quarter - an act seen by palestinians as a provocation . palestinian shops along the procession route closed , amid a heavy israeli police presence , with 3 , 000 officers deployed . police later said that 18 people were arrested , including five for attacking journalists . israel ’ s haaretz newspaper - whose journalist nir hasson was among those assaulted - reported that hundreds of young men rampaged through the muslim quarter before the event began , chanting “ death to arabs ” and attacking palestinians and other people . the flag march is always tense , but fears of violence were higher this year because of the war in gaza . israel ’ s far - right national security minister , itamar ben - gvir , took part in the march and said at the start that it was sending a message to hamas that “ jerusalem is ours ”.“ with the help of god , the full victory is ours ," he added . meanwhile , prime minister benjamin netanyahu told a special meeting in honour of jerusalem day that israel was " surrounded by enemies " as it had been 57 year ago ." they thought to strangle us , to wipe us off the map . but we are an ancient people , a people of brave fighters . we stood up as one and we defended ourselves ," he said . " we are also doing so today against hamas in the south , hezbollah in the north and iran in the east .” hamas ’ s political leader , ismail haniyeh , condemned what he called the “ rampage of settlers ” in jerusalem .“ our people will not rest until the occupation ends ,” he vowed . jerusalem , with its major muslim , jewish and christian holy sites , is at the heart of the decades - old israeli - palestinian conflict . israel - which occupied the formerly jordanian - held east of the city in 1967 , and effectively annexed it in 1980 in a move not recognised by most countries - regards the whole of jerusalem as its capital . palestinian leaders want east jerusalem - which is home to about 350 , 000 palestinians and 230 , 000 israeli settlers - to be the capital of a future independent palestinian state . on the day of the israeli flag march in 2021 , hamas fired rockets at jerusalem , triggering a war in gaza that lasted 11 days . the current war began when hamas attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 251 others as hostages . at least 36 , 580 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says .