israeli president isaac herzog ' s presence at the opening of a holocaust museum in amsterdam has sparked protests over israel ' s military operations in gaza . activists calling for a ceasefire gathered in a square near the national holocaust museum , in the city ' s jewish quarter . some people protesting were , themselves , jewish . both palestinian and israeli flags were seen being held by demonstrators . some protesters climbed onto police vans , and riot police beat them away as they started to throw fireworks and eggs , dutch media outlet de telegraaf reported . signs were seen reading " jews against genocide ", and " the grandchild of a holocaust survivor says : stop gaza holocaust ." the museum said it had invited mr herzog before the hamas attack on 7 october , which led to israel ' s ground offensive in gaza . in a statement , it said it recognised mr herzog ' s attendance raised questions , but added that he represented the homeland of dutch holocaust survivors who had emigrated to israel . in a speech , israel ' s president said the museum would " remember the horrors born of hatred , antisemitism and racism ". " unfortunately ' never again ' is now , right now . because right now , hatred and antisemitism are flourishing worldwide and we must fight it together ," he said . mr herzog called for the " immediate and safe return " of hostages taken by hamas in the 7 october attacks . also present at the opening ceremony were dutch king willem - alexander , austrian president alexander van der bellen , dutch prime minister mark rutte , and the president of the german federal council , manuela schwesig . they were met with booing from the crowds as they arrived at the museum . in a speech to dutch holocaust survivors gathering at a nearby synagogue , king willem - alexander said : " this museum shows us what devastating consequences antisemitism can have ." the holocaust museum will open to the public on monday , to mark almost 80 years since world war two ended . it will display 2 , 500 objects that have not been seen in public before . before the nazi occupation , the netherlands was home to a huge jewish community of around 140 , 000 people . however , it was estimated that 75 % of them - about 102 , 000 people - were murdered during the holocaust . correction 18th march : this article includes a video of the protests and the original version of this video quoted the president of israel as calling for the release of " jewish hostages ". in fact isaac herzogcalled for the release of hostages in general and the video has been amended to reflect this .