an israeli cabinet minister has denied claims israeli forces deliberately targeted seven world central kitchen ( wck ) aid workers in gaza . wck founder josé andrés has accused israel of targeting his workers " systematically , car by car ". nir barkat , israel ' s minister of economy , told bbc news that mr andrés ' allegations were " nonsense ". israel says the strikes which killed the workers were a " grave mistake " and has promised an investigation . on wednesday , mr andrés told reuters news agency that what the israeli forces had done was not a " bad luck situation where , ' oops ', we dropped the bomb in the wrong place ". in a separate interview with israel ' s channel 12 news , the spanish - american celebrity chef said " it was really a direct attack on clearly marked vehicles whose movements were known by everybody at the idf [ israel defense forces ]". following mr andrés ' comments , nir barkat told the bbc israel was " terribly sorry " about killing the seven aid workers but that " unfortunately , in wars friendly fire happens ". he said " it ' s part of war , we do everything we can that it will not happen and learn [ from ] the incident and make sure it does not happen again ". the killings have drawn widespread international condemnation . uk prime minister rishi sunak has " demanded a thorough and transparent independent investigation ", while us president joe biden accused israel of not doing enough to protect aid workers and civilians . " the united states has repeatedly urged israel to deconflict their military operations against hamas with humanitarian operations , in order to avoid civilian casualties ," mr biden said . asked specifically about mr andrés ' concerns that his aid workers had tried to call the idf during the separate strikes , and that they had been deliberately targeted , mr barkat said : " that ' s nonsense , i ' m sorry ." " with all due respect there ' s no way in the world that israel would target people that come to give people aid ," he said . hamas , he added , intentionally attacked israeli villages on 7 october , raping and killing women . according to wck , the aid convoy was hit while leaving the deir al - balah warehouse , " where the team had unloaded more than 100 tonnes of humanitarian food aid brought to gaza on the maritime route ". the convoy was made up of three vehicles , including two that were armoured , which clearly displayed the charity ' s logo . the vehicles were around 2 . 5km ( 1 . 5 miles ) apart and all three were hit during the attack . the bodies of six of the foreign wck workers have been taken to egypt to be repatriated and their 25 - year - old palestinian colleague was buried in his hometown in rafah , southern gaza , on tuesday . wck announced that it had suspended operations on tuesday , putting humanitarian aid to the gaza strip in doubt . according to cogat , the israeli defence ministry body in charge of civilian policy in the occupied west bank and gaza , wck is responsible for 60 % of the non - governmental aid getting into the territory . wck said it had distributed 42 million meals in the gaza strip - dispatching more than 1 , 700 food trucks and also sending close to 435 , 000 meals by sea . the un also announced it was pausing movements at night for at least 48 hours to evaluate the security situation . and a second charity , the american near east refugee aid ( anera ), which was working closely with wck , told the bbc it has also frozen its operations in gaza . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has described the strike as unintentional . " it happens in war , we check it to the end , we are in contact with the governments , and we will do everything so that this thing does not happen again ," mr netanyahu said on tuesday . three of the killed aid workers were british nationals . a polish national , an australian , a palestinian and a dual us - canadian citizen were also killed . more than 196 aid workers have been killed in gaza since october , according to the us - funded aid worker security database , which records major incidents of violence against aid personnel . not all have been killed in the line of duty . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas - led gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . about 130 of the hostages remain in captivity , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead . more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says .