charlotte church has said the police have had to check on her and her family after their safety was threatened by " some pretty scary people ". the singer added the problems followed a pro - palestinian event she attended in bedwas , caerphilly county , last month . the 38 - year - old subsequently faced accusations of antisemitism . she continues to strongly deny the accusations , saying she had " always kept great reverence for judaism and jewish culture ". in late february , at a sing for palestine event to raise money for a new ambulance for gaza ' s al awda hospital , church led a rendition of from the river to the sea . critics say the chant calls for the destruction of the state of israel , including the campaign against antisemitism who say the chant is deeply offensive and threatening . the palestine solidarity campaign and other activists contest this , saying the slogan refers to " the right of all palestinians to freedom , equality and justice ". in a statement on her website , she said : " i have been called many things in my time , but not until this week have i received so much imaginative and violent hate - i ' ve never before been called ' traitor '. " the threats to me and my family ' s safety by some pretty scary people have resulted in the police coming round to check in on us ." defending her performance , she said : " i do not believe that the phrase ' from the river to the sea ' is in any way a call for the ethnic cleansing or genocide of israelis . " certainly , when i have used it or heard it used by other people , it has always been as a call for the liberation of palestine . " often it is accompanied by the phrase ' we are all palestinians '." church added : " a call for one group ' s liberation does not imply another ' s destruction , and those suggesting that it does are leveraging a grotesque irony given it ' s that first group which is currently being murdered in their thousands ." she also stressed she does not support hamas and condemns them for the attack on 7 october . israel and the palestinian group hamas have been at war since early october . it began when hamas gunmen launched an unprecedented attack on israel from gaza - the deadliest in israel ' s history . an israeli military campaign has followed , which has killed thousands in the palestinian territory . " i hold the jewish people in my life very dearly , and have always kept great reverence for judaism and jewish culture , since travelling around israel and palestine as a teenager ," she said . on saturday , church marched alongside tens of thousands of protesters in central london calling for an immediate ceasefire in gaza .