four hostages kidnapped by hamas have been reunited with their families , after being rescued in a raid that palestinian officials say killed scores of people . noa argamani , 26 , almog meir jan , 22 , andrei kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 , were freed on saturday , eight months since being kidnapped from the nova music festival on 7 october . israeli forces , backed by air strikes , fought intense gun battles with hamas in the nuseirat area , in what the israel defense forces called a " high - risk , complex mission ". palestinian officials say women and children were among those killed in the military assault . two hospitals in gaza , al - aqsa hospital and al - awda hospital , said they had counted 70 bodies between them , while hamas ' s government media office said at least 210 people had been killed in israeli strikes in and around the al - nuseirat refugee camp . israel estimated there were fewer than 100 casualties , idf spokesman daniel hagari said . images from the area show intense bombardment , and hospitals there said they were overwhelmed with casualties , including children , and that they were unable to treat everyone . other photos show people mourning the dead . the rare rescue of hostages - a joint operation conducted by the idf , israel security agency and israel police - comes eight months into war with hamas in gaza . idf spokesman daniel hagari said the mission was based on " precise " intelligence and the hostages were freed from two separate buildings in nuseirat . israeli forces came under fire during the operation , he said . one special forces officer was wounded in the gaza hostage rescue and later died in hospital , israeli police said . the idf said the released hostages were all in good health , and they were later pictured embracing family members at a medical centre near tel aviv . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu praised israeli forces for operating " creatively and bravely "." we will not let up until we complete the mission and return home all the hostages - both those alive and dead ," he added . defence minister yoav gallant said special forces operated " under heavy fire " when rescuing the four hostages ." this is one of the most heroic and extraordinary operations i have witnessed over the course of 47 years serving in israel ’ s defence establishment ," mr gallant said . the us also provided intelligence support to israel in the raid , according to the bbc ' s partner cbs news which cited two american officials . they added that us forces did not take part in the operation and the temporary pier in gaza - which has now resumed aid deliveries after being damaged by heavy seas - was not used in the operation . miss argamani , a chinese - born israeli citizen , was kidnapped from the nova festival and harrowing video footage from 7 october showed the 26 - year - old being taken away on the back of a motorbike screaming , " don ' t kill me !" fresh video of her being reunited with her father , smiling and embracing him on board a vehicle , was broadcast soon after news of the rescue operation on saturday . mr kozlov , a russian who moved to israel in 2022 , and mr ziv had both been working as security guards at the festival when they were kidnapped . mr jan had been due to start a job at a large tech company the day after he was kidnapped . the hostages families forum headquarters , a group representing the families of the hostages , described the rescue as “ a miraculous triumph ” and thanked the idf for the “ heroic operation ”. the group added : “ the israeli government must remember its commitment to bring back all 120 hostages still held by hamas — the living for rehabilitation , the murdered for burial .” while there was jubilation in israel , images and video showed death , injury and destruction in the area , including around the al - nuseirat refugee camp . according to bbc verify , it appeared that israeli strikes took place across several locations in central gaza , but nuseirat - the location of the idf operation to release four hostages - seems to have been hit hardest . one video from the al - aqsa hospital shows numerous people with injuries lying on the floor , while other videos showed a frequent stream of new patients being driven in by car and ambulance and carried into the building . the hamas government media office said at least 400 were wounded in the densely - populated area . palestinian president mahmoud abbas has called for an emergency united nations security council session to discuss what he has called " the bloody massacre that was carried out by the israeli forces " in and around the al - nuseirat refugee camp . the european union ' s high representative for foreign affairs , josep borrell said on x : " reports from gaza of another massacre of civilians are appalling ." we condemn this in the strongest terms . the bloodbath must end immediately ." the rescue of hostages comes amid efforts for a ceasefire and hostage release deal between israel and hamas . mr netanyahu has been urged to reach an agreement but faces opposition from far - right allies who say military action is the only way to bring the hostages back . saturday ’ s operation is the most successful rescue of hostages by the israeli military in this war – and could change the calculation of a prime minister who is under increasing pressure . israeli war cabinet minister benny gantz cancelled a news conference which had been scheduled for saturday . it comes amid speculation mr gantz would quit having previously threatened to resign from the war cabinet if mr netanyahu did not approve a post - war plan for gaza by 8 june . world leaders , including us president joe biden , france ' s emmanuel macron and german chancellor olaf scholz have welcomed the news of the hostage rescue . in response to the military offensive in nuseirat , hamas political leader ismail haniyeh said israel could not force its choices on the group . he said the group would not agree to a ceasefire deal unless it achieved security for palestinians . during its 7 october attacks in southern israel hamas killed about 1 , 200 people and took some 251 people . some 116 remain in the palestinian territory , including 41 the army says are dead . a deal agreed in november saw hamas release 105 hostages in return for a week - long ceasefire and some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . on saturday , the hamas - run health ministry said the death toll in gaza is now 36 , 801 people .