a university has increased security measures after six men reportedly threatened students protesting against the war in gaza . protest camps , described as " liberated zones ", were set up near oxford university campuses on 6 may . thames valley police confirmed it was called to parks road on saturday at 20 : 50 bst to " reports of disorder ". madeleine jane , a freelance journalist and postgraduate student , captured the moment men confronted protesters . thames valley police confirmed no arrests were made following the incident , which happened opposite keble college . officers instead issued a section 35 dispersal order to move people on from the area . a university of oxford spokesperson said they were " concerned " and had increased security for the encampment . ms jane , who has been living in the camp and covering the protests as a journalist , told the bbc the incident on saturday felt " surreal ". posting on social media , she reported the men " ripped down banners , screamed at students and made threats ". she explained : " protesters did not engage and de - escalators moved local community members away from the attackers . ms jane said the men were " aggressive " with press on site , adding : " i was repeatedly approached , called a terrorist , screamed at and threatened ." she said she was " grateful there were well - trained people working hard to de - escalate " and that she " felt shaken " after the men were reportedly moved on by police . a statement from the university of oxford said its " key priority " since protests started has been the " safety and welfare of the whole university community , as well as visitors to our buildings and the public ". it added : " we are maintaining an increased security presence around the encampment to ensure the safety and welfare of everybody , while also providing regular protection across the rest of the university . " we are in close contact with thames valley police and are grateful to them for their swift response on saturday evening ." protesters have hung a list of their demands for the university vice chancellor at the gates of the sheldonian theatre . on the list of demands , protesters called for the university to disclose all finances , overhaul university investment policy , boycott " israeli genocide , apartheid and occupation " and stop banking with barclays . israel has rejected accusations it is engaging in genocidal acts in its campaign in gaza , and has insisted it has the right to defend itself following the armed incursion by hamas on 7 october . since that date , more than 35 , 000 people have been killed , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . in a statement after the incident , oxford action for palestine said the men " accosted " protesters . it added : " we are thankful no - one was hurt , but we remain enraged at the politically motivated fearmongering that jeopardised the safety of our campers ." the union of jewish students has been approached for comment . update 15 may 2024 : this story has been amended to include further details and quotes about the incident which led to the university stepping up security . follow bbc south on facebook , x , or instagram . send your story ideas to south . newsonline @ bbc . co . uk or via whatsapp on 0808 100 2240 .