hopes had been high over the past week following talks in paris that there could be a new gaza ceasefire deal in place for the start of the islamic holy month of ramadan next week . however , while hamas has now sent a delegation to cairo for further negotiations with egyptian and qatari mediators , israel has not . this looks like a serious new block . israeli officials - quoted in local media - demand clear answers from hamas on key issues as well as a list of the surviving israeli hostages who could be released with an agreement . meanwhile , a senior hamas official , dr basem naim , told the bbc on sunday that " practically , it is impossible to know who is still alive " because of continuing israeli bombing . " they are in different areas with different groups . we have asked for a ceasefire to collect that data ," he added . dr naim went on to say that such " valuable information " about the hostages could not be given " for free ". he , and other senior hamas figures , have also been continuing to demand a full ceasefire and withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza , rather than a temporary truce . the us and regional players with leverage will now be putting pressure on both israel and hamas trying to shore up recent progress on the potential deal . this would reportedly see some 40 israeli hostages released in exchange for about 10 times as many palestinian prisoners being freed from israeli jails . more than 130 hostages are still believed to be held by hamas . israeli officials have said that at least 30 of them are dead . over the course of a proposed 40 - day truce , there would be a surge in desperately needed aid entering into gaza . without a deal , there is a higher threat of a further spread of tensions during ramadan , which this year is due to begin on 10 or 11 march , depending on the lunar calendar . israel is expected to impose restrictions on access for palestinians to the holiest muslim site in occupied east jerusalem , the al - aqsa mosque compound , citing its security concerns . the site - which is also the holiest place in judaism , known as temple mount - has often been a flashpoint for violence in the decades - old israel - palestinian conflict . hamas is well aware of international fears about a new conflagration and has previously used al - aqsa to raise the stakes . last week , in a televised address , the leader of the islamist group , ismail haniyeh , claimed hamas was showing flexibility in negotiations , but also called on palestinians in the occupied west bank and jerusalem to march to the mosque to pray on the first day of ramadan . international pressure for a ceasefire deal has ratcheted up with the dire humanitarian conditions in gaza where , according to the un , hundreds of thousands of people are facing famine following nearly six months of war . " given the immense scale of suffering , there must be an immediate ceasefire for at least the next six weeks , which is what is currently on the table ," the us vice - president kamala harris told an event in alabama . " this will get the hostages out and get a significant amount of aid in ." " people in gaza are starving . the conditions are inhumane and our common humanity compels us to act ," ms harris went on . her comments were some of the strongest language used yet to describe the situation by a senior us government official and reflect the growing frustration within washington - the closest ally of israel - about developments in the war . increasingly what is happening on the ground in gaza is hurting president biden ' s presidential re - election campaign . in israel , there is also intense domestic pressure on the war cabinet to agree a new deal from the families of the hostages . thousands of israelis joined them for the last leg of a four - day solidarity march , which began close to the gaza border at one of the sites that was a focus of the deadly 7 october hamas attacks , and ended in jerusalem on saturday night . they held up israeli flags and posters of the hostages . speaking at the rally , sharon sharabi whose brother , eli , is still believed to be held in hamas captivity , said : " we ' ve lost four members of our family , the sharabi family - my family , your family . we do not intend - listen carefully , leaders of israel - we do not intend to bring a fifth coffin here ."