president joe biden warned against what he called a " ferocious surge " of antisemitism in the us and around the world during a holocaust remembrance event on tuesday . he said too many people had been " denying , downplaying , rationalising the horrors of the holocaust ". mr biden , 81 , also condemned those who he said had forgotten the 7 october hamas attack on israel . it was some of his most pointed criticism of hamas since the attack . " it was hamas that brutalised israelis ," mr biden said . " it was hamas that took and continues to hold hostages . i have not forgotten ." the president also criticised what he characterised as lawless behaviour and hateful rhetoric directed at jewish people by some pro - palestinian protesters on us university campuses in recent weeks . he said that " scapegoating and demonising a minority " threatens all minorities . the speech followed police interventions to dismantle several protest camps at colleges around the country . the demonstrators have faced complaints of intimidation and hate speech , which organisers have denied . at the same time they say they have been subject to islamophobic and racist remarks by counter - demonstrators . ahead of the speech , the white house announced new measures aimed at countering antisemitism , expanding on a national strategy first published in june . they include the creation of online resources " to ensure that colleges and universities do a better job of protecting both jewish students and all of their students ", as well as new guidance for schools . since the 7 october attack on israel by hamas militants and the subsequent israeli invasion of the gaza strip , jewish students in the us have reported an increase in antisemitic incidents . according to the anti - defamation league , a leading jewish advocacy group , incidents spiked nationally in the final three months of 2023 , and rose 321 % on university campuses . one jewish student at columbia university - where a protest encampment sparked a wave of pro - palestinian demonstrations - previously told the bbc that she had been called a " murderer " and told to " go back to poland ". while the protesters have said they were demonstrating peacefully for a ceasefire in gaza , several encampments in university buildings have been shut down by police over concerns about escalating violence . others have been allowed to continue on the proviso they remain peaceful . in the six months since the israel - hamas conflict began , the biden administration has attempted to balance support for israel with addressing growing domestic dissent over the deteriorating humanitarian situation in gaza . but while some have accused mr biden of not doing enough to end the fighting , he has faced criticism from republicans for publicly seeking to limit israel ' s actions and not speaking about the protests sooner .