it is the good news story us president joe biden has been waiting to celebrate and one which he badly needs right now . toasting the return of power - sharing devolved government to northern ireland after a gap of two years . it will add some shine to the st patrick ' s day celebrations in washington dc this week and provide a timely boost for team biden ahead of the presidential election in november . on sunday , the president will mark the occasion when he hosts the first and deputy first ministers in the white house . expect lots of back slapping now the political fruits of the good friday agreement are back on track . but while the resolution of one conflict 26 years ago is still being celebrated , another conflict will overshadow the festivities in washington this week . the israeli air strikes and ongoing ground operation in gaza in response to the hamas attacks on 7 october will place a strain on relations between the visitors and their hosts . that was clear from the moment taoiseach ( irish prime minister ) leo varadkar landed in the united states earlier in the week . at his first engagement in boston on monday he told his us audience " when thousands of children are being killed no one can avert their eyes ". it was a veiled swipe at the us support for the bombardment of gaza . however , the taoiseach was careful to also reflect on the " act of pure evil " carried out by hamas in october . that speech is likely to set the tone for what we can expect this week . though the biden administration is pushing hard to get humanitarian aid into gaza , the us vetoed three un resolutions calling for a ceasefire . first minister michelle o ' neill , of sinn féin , who like the other political leaders was under pressure to boycott the white house , said she will speak up for palestinians . deputy first minister emma little - pengelly is likely to follow her party - the democratic unionist party ( dup ) - in its support for the israeli government . aside from those difficult conversations , the first and deputy first ministers will be keen to cash in on the good will generated by stormont ' s return . judging by the list of engagements , they will take centre stage in washington this week and are likely to be the go - to couple for selfies . but their focus will be on the £ 5bn ($ 6 . 4bn ) in us investment promised by president biden on stormont ' s return . that pledge was made during his visit to belfast in 2023 . the president ' s point man in northern ireland , special envoy joe kennedy , will be under pressure to deliver . to that end he is hosting a number of investment gatherings this week which will be attended by the first and deputy first ministers . economy minister conor murphy will also be in attendance , along with stormont speaker edwin poots . education minister paul givan is joining the delegation in washington , where he will be lobbying to secure extra investment for childcare . dup leader sir jeffrey donaldson is also making the trip . in 2023 , northern ireland secretary chris heaton - harris played a leading role during the festivities as the only political gatekeeper in office . this year he will be happy to drop to the supporting - role category , making way for the locally elected politicians to step up . but while it may feel like a lap of honour now stormont is back , there is enough to keep minds focused elsewhere .