a un report into the palestinian refugee agency unrwa has concluded it must do more to improve its neutrality , staff vetting and transparency . but the independent review also said that israel had failed to back up a claim that many of the agency ' s staff belonged to terror groups . some of unrwa ' s staff were accused by israel of involvement in the 7 october attacks and of being hamas members . this led several countries to halt funding to the humanitarian agency . the new report says israel has not yet provided " supporting evidence " for its allegations . however it adds that the agency ' s monitoring processes need to improve , and that neutrality - related issues persist despite the fact that the organisation has a " robust framework ". the israeli authorities have rejected the findings , claiming the report ignores the severity of the problem . they say the problem with the agency is not " that of a few bad apples : it is a rotten and poisonous tree whose roots are hamas ". israel initially alleged that 12 unrwa staff took part in the hamas attacks on southern israel , which saw 1 , 200 people killed and about 250 taken hostage . unrwa fired the 10 of those employees who were still alive and a separate investigation by the un ' s office of internal oversight into those allegations is ongoing . monday ' s report looks at the other israeli claim that large numbers of unrwa staff are members of terror groups or have family members who are . israel has said more than 2 , 135 employees of the agency - of a total of 13 , 000 in gaza - are members of hamas or palestinian islamic jihad , proscribed as terrorist organisations by israel , the uk , us and others . it has also suggested a fifth of unrwa school administrators are hamas members . unrwa insists it carries out detailed reference checks on all staff , and shares staff lists with all host states including israel . this new report says israel is yet to provide supporting evidence for its claims . but it is not a glowing endorsement of the agency . led by former french foreign minister catherine colonna , and supported by three european research institutes , it finds that unrwa could do better upholding the obligatory humanitarian principles of neutrality and impartiality . it points to staff vetting systems that could be improved - but adds that for this to happen , there needs to be better cooperation with and from israeli and palestinian authorities . israel already receives lists of unrwa staff for its own vetting purposes on a regular basis . the report also highlights how challenging - even dangerous - unrwa ' s working environment is . violence is common , opinions are polarised , and although unrwa ' s systems are described as more rigorous than many other agencies , the report suggests they are often hampered by low staffing and security concerns . the un chief and head of unrwa have accepted the report ' s findings in full , and pledged to implement all its recommendations . although several donors including japan , sweden , finland , canada and the eu have resumed funding to unrwa , the us and uk have not . the un will be hoping this report will encourage them to restore their financial support . but some donors may want to wait for the other un investigation that specifically looks at allegations that 12 unrwa staff actually took part in the 7 october attack , before restoring cash to an organisation today ' s report described , despite its need for improvement , as " irreplaceable and indispensable to palestinians ' human and economic development ".