a medical student has set up a fundraiser to help him escape the conflict in gaza and complete his studies at oxford university . mohammed alhabil trained at the john radcliffe and churchill hospitals in oxford and returned to gaza weeks before the conflict broke out . he said his dreams of becoming a doctor had turned into " searching for ways of survival ". the funding campaign has achieved more than half of its £ 34 , 000 target . " only six months ago , i was sitting in the john radcliffe hospital having been accepted onto a medical student elective by the university of oxford ," mr alhabil said on his fundraising page . he trained in vascular and lower gastrointestinal surgery ( gi ) at the john radcliffe hospital and the churchill hospital over two months . now , he is in rafah , in the southern gaza strip , and compares the situation to " a nightmare ". mr alhabil explains he returned to finish his final year at his medical school in gaza and " pursue a training as a general surgeon in the uk ". he had ambitions to eventually open his own clinic in gaza . " the war in gaza crushed my dreams , i experienced the worst days of my life in that early october onslaught ," he said . " i used to live in khan younis and now my house is completely damaged and turned into ash ." in february , the world health organization said it had not been allowed to enter khan younis ' s nasser hospital , which had ceased to function following an israeli raid . he and his family were " forcibly displaced " in december , along with 1 . 5m other palestinians . " when i go to the market to buy something , i feel like i walk in a march ," mr alhabil explains . " there is high demand for everything . it ' s manageable but ... we ' re queueing for water and for bread for one or two hours . " my life turned from having hopes and dreams to have a bright future , to searching for ways of survival ." he came up with the fundraiser while thinking of ways to finish his medical degree . " the support i had from people , their words , was truly fantastic ," he said . follow bbc south on facebook , x , or instagram . send your story ideas to south . newsonline @ bbc . co . uk or via whatsapp on 0808 100 2240 .