mcdonald ' s will buy back all of its israeli restaurants after sales suffered from a boycott of the brand over its perceived support for israel . the fast food giant was criticised after its israeli franchise gave away thousands of free meals to israeli soldiers . mcdonald ' s said it had reached a deal with franchisee alonyal to return 225 outlets . it said in january the israel - hamas war had " meaningfully impacted " business . widespread protests affected sales in the middle east , indonesia and france . alonyal , which is led and owned by chief executive omri padan , has operated mcdonald ' s restaurants in israel for more than 30 years . mcdonald ' s uses a franchise system which means that individual operators are licensed to run outlets and employ staff . the boycott of mcdonald ' s was sparked after muslim - majority countries such as kuwait , malaysia and pakistan issued statements distancing themselves from the firm . days after the hamas attacks on israel last october , and the retaliation by israel defense forces ( idf ), mcdonald ' s franchisee said on social media that it had " donated and continues to donate tens of thousands of meals to idf units , the police , hospitals , residents around the strip and all rescue forces ". vocal protests were staged worldwide as the grassroots boycott spread beyond the middle east . as well as restaurants in the region , mcdonald ' s businesses in france , indonesia and malaysia have also been affected . on thursday , the company said : " mcdonald ' s remains committed to the israeli market and to ensuring a positive employee and customer experience in the market going forward ." it also thanked alonyal for building the brand in israel . mr padan said : " we are encouraged by what the future holds ." the us company said the restaurants , operations and employees in israel would be retained " on equivalent terms " though the terms of the sale were not revealed . under alonyal , mcdonald ' s employs 5 , 000 people . at the start of the year , mcdonald ' s chief executive chris kempczinski blamed the backlash on " misinformation " but it hit the firm ' s financials nonetheless and it missed its first quarterly sales target in nearly four years . the boycott was described as " disheartening and ill - founded " by mcdonald ' s . the company relies on thousands of independent businesses to own and operate most of its more than 40 , 000 stores around the world . about 5 % are located in the middle east . " in every country where we operate , including in muslim countries , mcdonald ' s is proudly represented by local owner operators ," mr kempczinski said at the time . " so long as this war is going on ... we ' re not expecting to see any significant improvement [ in these markets ]," the mcdonald ' s boss added . the company will be hoping that by taking the israeli business back " in house " it can restore its reputation in the middle east and meet its key sales targets once more . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operations that began after hamas - led gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . about 130 of the hostages remain in captivity , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead . more than 33 , 000 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry said . what is your reaction to this decision ? email haveyoursay @ bbc . co . uk . please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist . you can also get in touch in the following ways : if you are reading this page and can ' t see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the bbc website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at haveyoursay @ bbc . co . uk . please include your name , age and location with any submission .