the divisions playing out in demonstrations on british streets are also playing out in all our lives - and increasingly in the cultural world too . with antisemitism and islamophobia rising , words and actions really matter , but from the pavements to the playgrounds to the playhouses , the israel - gaza conflict is polarising opinion - and protests have spilled into the cultural world , with some inevitable backlash . there have been high - profile examples of cultural figures venturing into the political arena and taking a stance on what ' s unfolding . charlotte church sang the controversial pro - palestinian chant " from the river to the sea " at a concert . ( she denied she was antisemitic ). the comedian paul currie pulled out a palestinian flag after his show ended at london ' s soho theatre and told jewish audience members who didn ' t stand up to " get out ". ( the theatre apologised and said it wouldn ' t be inviting currie back ). and belfast rappers kneecap recently appeared on the late late show in ireland wearing pro - palestinian outfits . ( they apparently flouted rules set by the broadcaster ). how is what ' s happening in the middle east - and the tensions being driven here by war and violence there - impacting the uk ' s arts and entertainment sphere ? what role does culture have to heal political divides - or foment them ? they ' re questions i wanted to explore with figures working in that world , to understand where culture fits at a time that emotions are running understandably high . artists speaking up for causes they believe in isn ' t new . dame vanessa redgrave is almost as renowned for her political views as her acting talents . it ' s hardly surprising there are people who want to protest about what ' s happening in gaza . the cultural world contains a lot of left - leaning voices . we ' ve also seen ( so far resisted ) calls for israel to be banned from having a pavilion at the venice biennale and from competing in the eurovision song contest . dame helen mirren and boy george were amongst the artists to sign an open letter in favour of israel taking part in what they called " unifying events such as singing competitions ". they argued the contest is a crucial way " to help bridge our cultural divides and unite people of all backgrounds ". talking more broadly , the theatre director iqbal khan , associate director at the birmingham rep , says " the nuance in these issues is being destroyed ". he calls the polarisation across all forms of public life " really concerning ", describing " a constant requirement to attach yourself to metaphorical flags and tribes of opinion which don ' t represent the truth of things ." david baddiel raised the issue of tribalism on the bbc ' s today programme last week . the comedian , writer and broadcaster said " within the space i come from - culture , showbusiness , artists , whatever - it feels there is a lot of support for palestinians and it may feel that the jewish voice isn ' t able to be heard and cowers a bit at the moment ". he added that baroness warsi , the former conservative deputy chairwoman and his co - host on a new podcast , had told him muslims feel similarly excluded and silenced in the world of politics and government . many would point to lee anderson ' s comments about " islamists " controlling the london mayor as evidence of that . the actress and writer tracy - ann oberman told me that " for those of us that have lived with israeli and with middle eastern politics for a very long time , who ' ve worked in advocacy between palestinians and israelis and who really understand the geopolitics of the region , we look at people who seem to have suddenly been educated at the university of tiktok to understand the situation - which is of course far too complex to be broken down in a 60 - second video ". she adds that " we ' re in shock because of what they ' re allowing themselves to say and to be part of ". each night , more horror unfolds in gaza , with grim milestones passed and devastating images beamed into our homes . the conflict was sparked by horrific acts of murder and rape carried out in israel by hamas on 7 october , and the ongoing trauma of the hostages held in gaza . the actor khalid abdalla , who plays dodi fayed in the crown , says " what is very hard is to find a voice which can speak in a way that honours the fact that there is grief and immense legacies on both sides ". but with no political solution , no ceasefire , and " this scale of slaughter , what ' s left for people other than to protest ? and if they have a platform culturally , to use it ". it ' s " very charged territory " but there is " a moral imperative to take a stand ". the tensions in the middle east can have real world consequences in the uk , not just in racist attacks on the streets . tracy - ann oberman ' s timely reimagining of shakespeare ' s the merchant of venice is her attempt to " reclaim " a difficult play full of antisemitic tropes . she wanted people to " see on stage what anti - jewish hatred looks like ". she is a vocal antisemitism campaigner - often " the lone voice in a room with so - called progressive creatives " she says . she told me she now has personal security as well as security guards who patrol the theatre as she performs her play the merchant of venice 1936 . " you ' ve got a jewish actress who has to have security in the west end because of speaking out about the rapes on 7 october and the industry has not risen up and said ' that ' s wrong '." " there should be more people who are saying ' this is unacceptable '. they would find it unacceptable if this was happening to any other minority ". " the country should take this very seriously . as history has proven , what starts with the jews doesn ' t end with the jews ". clearly , a line is breached if - in these inflamed times - people feel unsafe . khan says " the right of an artist to show solidarity with people who are suffering should be absolutely honoured . the minute though somebody ' s safety is threatened , that ' s different ". he uses what happened at the soho theatre comedy show as an example of that . " everybody in that cultural space should feel safe . and i ' m not sure in the soho instance that happened ". ( soho theatre is still investigating what happened but said while it robustly supported the right of artists to express a wide range of views in their shows , " intimidation of audience members , acts of antisemitism or any other forms of racism will not be tolerated ".) khan says while " vigorous debate " is useful , people " need to talk without encroaching on another ' s safety or inciting others to violence ". he believes there is " enormous support culturally for those who oppose antisemitism ". there is also " massive disgust at what is going on in gaza at the moment , with obviously the understanding that the atrocity that began all of this was the particular set of events on 7 october ". " the response feels appalling to a lot of people … that ' s the thing that ' s motivating those voices . " i was horrified at what happened on 7 october . but the continuing response and the amount , i would describe it as a genocide ." the cultural space being used as a vehicle for activism isn ' t new . art never operates in a vacuum . think back to 1985 when spitting image broadcast a satirical song , released for sale the following year , called " i ' ve never met a nice south african ". it was an attack on that country ' s apartheid regime and was comedic and pretty uncontroversial . fast forward to 2022 and the baftas took place soon after russia ' s full - scale invasion of ukraine . stars of the film world including benedict cumberbatch turned up wearing blue and yellow badges in support , and the ukraine flag was projected onto the side of the royal albert hall . then , last summer , liverpool hosted eurovision on behalf of ukraine - in a sun - filled , joyful coming together of cultures . but these geopolitical issues are viewed as binary , for the vast majority in the uk anyway . apartheid was wrong and the invasion of ukraine is unjust - that ' s the prevailing western narrative , and nobody is taking to the streets or our tv screens to say otherwise . those artists picked a side and were lauded for it . the israel - gaza war is also binary for many , with more than 30 , 000 killed in gaza and about 1 , 200 killed in israel . but perhaps that leaves no room for nuance or an understanding that jews in britain aren ' t representatives of the israeli state , just as british muslims don ' t speak for hamas - and that there is genuine fear in our minority communities as tensions rise . oberman says " a lot of people don ' t seem to understand you can both be heartbroken at the situation in gaza and be appalled at the rise in antisemitism in the uk - the two are not mutually exclusive ". so where does all this leave that hard won right to freedom of expression ? she argues " it ' s sacrosanct but it doesn ' t seem to be working for the jewish community at the moment ". abdalla says " either we believe in freedom of expression or we don ' t … artists and workers in culture generally have a responsibility to find ways to express whatever is culturally important to their age ". he believes the cultural arena " has to be a safe space for difficult conversations . the failure in public discourse has fed this crisis and we have a duty to confront that ." " we need our artists , our cultural workers to be finding a way through , to find a language that can speak a way through , as part of finding a political solution ."