israel is weighing possible responses to iran ' s attack with hundreds of drones and missiles , amid growing calls for restraint to avert a wider war . israel and its allies shot down nearly all projectiles fired in the first ever direct iranian attack on israel . the us has said it will not take part in any israeli response , to avoid an escalation in regional hostilities . centrist israeli minister benny gantz said the country would " exact the price " from iran when timing is right . for almost two weeks iran had telegraphed its plans to respond to the 1 april air strike on its diplomatic compound in the syrian capital , damascus , that killed several military advisors , including two top generals . iran blamed israel for the attack , saying it was equivalent to a strike on its own soil . rear admiral daniel hagari , a spokesman for the israeli military , said iran fired around 300 explosive drones , cruise and ballistic missiles , but that 99 % of them were intercepted by israel , supported by us , british , jordanian and other allied forces . in jerusalem , the air raid sirens went off at around 01 : 45 , followed by loud blasts after the air defence intercepted projectiles over the city . a map published by the israeli military showed the entire country covered with red dots , symbolising areas at risk of being hit and where residents were urged to seek shelter . the attack , in the end , had limited impact . a military base in the south sustained minor damage , the israeli military said , and a seven - year - old israeli girl was critically wounded by a missile that got through the defences . in a phone call overnight , us president joe biden reaffirmed to israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu america ' s " ironclad commitment " to the security of israel , but said the us would not support an israeli retaliation . later , a senior administration official said israel ' s successful defence was already a victory over iran , and that the country should " think carefully " about what it does next . " big question is not only whether , but what the israelis might choose to do , so this is a decision for them ," the official said . tensions between israel and iran have been high for decades and , since the start of the gaza war , iran ' s proxies in the region - such as hezbollah in lebanon and the houthis in yemen - have carried out attacks on israel and on targets linked to israel or its allies . the overnight attack , and the possibility of an israeli response , risked putting the two old enemies in open confrontation , and sparked a flurry of international diplomatic activity aimed at reducing tensions . israel ' s five - member war cabinet - which includes mr gantz - met on sunday to discuss a possible reaction , but no decision was made amid a division over the timing and scale of any such response , according to the reuters news agency . the iranian army chief of staff maj gen mohammad bagheri warned israel against retaliation , saying an iranian response would be " much larger than [ sunday ' s ] military action ". despite the rhetoric , iranian officials have indicated not being interested in an escalation of hostilities . in israel , the country seemed to be returning to normal on sunday . the airspace was reopened and the airport was again operational . " the power of israel is that we have a shield , a defence from these threats ," 54 - year - old ariel said , in jerusalem . "[ the attack ] was expected . i hope there won ' t be a war ."