an israeli missile hit iran early on friday morning , according to us officials . blasts were heard in the central province of isfahan , which is home to nuclear facilities , a large airbase and a major missile production complex . israel has not confirmed it was responsible but had vowed to respond to a massive iranian missile and drone attack on its territory last weekend . iranian officials and media claimed the attack did not inflict any damage . while us officials confirmed the strike happened to the bbc ' s partner station cbs news , the response from tehran has been muted and mild . some officials have denied outright that it even took place at all , and one mocked it as " a failed attack " involving just a " few quadcopters ". while it is not possible to independently verify the damage it may have caused , the strike appears to have been limited in its scope . no casualties have been reported . it appears to be a carefully calibrated response by israel to iran ' s missile attack last weekend , aimed at balancing the demands of those in israel demanding a tough response and the worldwide appeals for calm . iran had been on high alert after israel said it would respond to the unprecedented iranian attack , which saw more than 300 drones and missiles fired towards israel - most of which were shot down . that attack was in response to a presumed israeli strike on iran ' s consulate in the syrian capital damascus , which killed senior military commanders . world leaders have been urging the two middle east rivals to deescalate rising tensions in recent days , though israel had repeatedly signalled it intended to retaliate in some form . several iranian nuclear facilities are based in isfahan , which iran say are used for purely peaceful purposes , though israel and western powers have long suspected tehran of secretly developing nuclear weapons . both iranian media and the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) said no nuclear sites were damaged in this strike . israel appears to have heeded appeals from allies not to risk further escalation with a large response , but sought to send a message that it can strike close to iran ' s nuclear programme and that next time it could be with much greater force . iran ' s semi - official fars news agency , which is close to the islamic revolution guard corps ( irgc ), said explosions were heard near isfahan international airport and an army base in isfahan city , activating local air defence systems . video from isfahan obtained by bbc persian shows orange flashes in the night sky and the sound of what appears to be bursts of anti - aircraft fire . hamish de bretton gordon , a former commander of uk and nato nuclear forces , told bbc news the attack appears to have been " fairly near to where we believe iran is building nuclear weapons , so i expect it was a nod to them ". speaking at the g7 , us secretary of state antony blinken said the us was " not involved in any offensive operations ". earlier , the italian foreign minister told reporters the us had been informed of israel ' s plans " at the last minute ". the strike in iran coincided with reported blasts in syria and iraq . the syrian defence ministry said an air defence position was hit by israel , while reports in iraq said part of an israeli missile had been found on its territory . in recent days , iranian leaders had warned that any israeli attack on iran would trigger a swift response . however , hours after friday ' s attack an unnamed iranian official told reuters news agency it might not have been carried out by a " foreign " source and that there were no plans to retaliate . russia says it has made clear to israel that iran does not want escalation , while foreign ministers from the g7 group of the world ' s largest industrial nations said they would work towards restoring calm . the recent flare up in hostilities follows an air strike on iran ' s consulate building in syria on 1 april , which killed two top generals . it is widely believed israel was behind it . the most senior of the two , brig gen mohammad reza zahedi , was reportedly in charge of iranian military operations in syria and lebanon , where pro - iranian forces have launched attacks on israel . it also comes as israel continues to fight hamas in gaza and hezbollah along the border with lebanon , both of which are backed by iran . what do you want to understand better about the israeli missile strike on iran ? our experts will be answering your questions . in some cases your question will be published , displaying your name , age and location as you provide it , unless you state otherwise . your contact details will never be published . please ensure you have read our terms & conditions and privacy policy .