tributes have been paid to the three british victims of an israeli air strike in gaza . john chapman , 57 , james henderson , 33 , and james kirby , 47 , were among the seven world central kitchen ( wck ) workers killed in monday ' s strike . mr kirby ' s family said he would be " remembered as a hero " and they were " incredibly proud " of what he achieved . mr chapman ' s family said they were " devastated " and that he " died trying to help people ". as well as the three britons , australian national lalzawmi frankcom , polish national damian sobol , palestinian saifeddin issam ayad abutahas and us - canadian citizen jacob flickinger , were also killed . the palestinian red crescent said its crews have transported the bodies of the six foreign aid workers to egypt via the rafah crossing . mr kirby , who was born in bristol , had toured bosnia and afghanistan with the british armed forces before moving into work as a security consultant . " james was always willing to lend a helping hand to anyone , even in the face of senseless violence ," his family said in a statement . " james lost his life trying to save others , he will never know what a void he has left , our family will never be the same ." mr kirby ' s cousins , amy roxburgh - barry and adam mcguire , told the bbc he was a " true friend who loved his mates and family " and " idolised his mum , who was his world and vice versa ". hearing of his death was a " complete shock ", ms roxburgh - barry said . " he has died a hero ." a friend who served in afghanistan with mr kirby in 2011 told the bbc that at the end of a patrol , he would make sure everyone was safe and well before thinking about himself . " james ' s heart was the biggest part of his body ", mark townsend said . " the suffering that people are obviously going through in gaza would have made him want to do something immediately ." mr chapman ' s family said they were " devastated " to have lost an " incredible father , husband , son and brother ". " he died trying to help people and was subject to an inhumane act ," they said . " he was loved by many and will forever be a hero . he will be missed dearly ". chris burns , who served with aylesbury - born mr chapman in the military , said he was funny and bubbly , and " got on with everybody ". mr henderson , from cornwall , had served for six years in the royal marines before moving to security work . he was a member of the penryn rugby club , which held a gathering on tuesday night for his close friends and teammates to share their memories of him . " clearly this tragic event , which has happened so far from jimmy ' s hometown , will be felt for a long time by his family , friends and everyone in the local community who knew and loved him ," penryn rfc chair matthew gray told the bbc . the three britons , all former servicemen , were acting as part of a wck security team , working for poole - based risk management company solace global . " the men were incredibly proud of what they did and accepted the dangers involved ," managing director emily roberts said . the company said she drove for more than 12 hours to meet the victims ' families after the firm received news of the attacks . solace global non - executive director matthew harding said the men were " all valued team members , to whom we were very close " and their deaths were a " truly tragic loss ". he said it was a " difficult time " for the " close - knit family of an organisation ," and that the company ' s operations room had been " live with the incident at the time ". " our greatest feelings are with their families , their loved ones , and indeed the remainder of the solace team ," mr harding said . the men had been in gaza for just over a week because the firm regularly rotates its staff . they were due to return home in days , the bbc understands . the men ' s roles as security advisers were to ensure the convoy followed its safety procedures and remained on the correct route . though israel has said the attack was an accident , mr harding said " all accidents are avoidable with the correct control measures " and that , after reviewing the incident , he was " completely satisfied " that all safety measures were correctly taken . the wck convoy had just unloaded more than 100 tonnes of food aid before it was hit , according to the charity . the organisation has said the strike happened despite " co - ordinating movements " with the israel defense forces ( idf ). paying tribute to the victims , wck chief executive erin gore said she was " heartbroken and appalled " at the " beautiful lives " lost in the attack . the charity ' s founder , celebrity chef josé andrés , said the victims were " angels " and called on israel to stop its " indiscriminate killing ". mr andrés told the reuters news agency that he doesn ' t believe the strike was a mistake , instead that the aid workers were killed " systematically , car by car ". " even if we were not in co - ordination with the ( israeli army ), no democratic country and no military can be targeting civilians and humanitarians ," he said . prime minister rishi sunak said the deaths " appalled " him . he demanded an investigation in a call with israel ' s pm benjamin netanyahu on tuesday . mr sunak said on the call that " far too many aid workers and ordinary civilians have lost their lives in gaza " and that the situation is " increasingly intolerable ". labour leader sir keir starmer described the air strike as " outrageous and unacceptable ", and called for humanitarian workers to be protected and international law to be upheld . israel said the strike was " unintended " and that wck workers were not deliberately targeted . " what happened was an absolute tragedy but i do not believe there is a systemic problem ," shimon freedman - a spokesperson for cogat , the israeli agency which co - ordinates aid deliveries into gaza - said . he added that accurate information about the aid convoy ' s movements had reached the idf . avi hyman , a spokesman for the israeli government , said : " there is an investigation which will be made public and come out in the coming days ." " preliminary findings show that it was a tragic , tragic mistake and my heart goes out to the families involved and families of the victims . what i ' ll say is , it has happened in the past that hamas and other terrorist organisations have used ambulances to transport their people ." the aid workers were travelling in cars , at least one of which was clearly marked with the world central kitchen logo on the roof . james kirby ' s cousin mr mcguire said he was " angry " with the response from israeli pm benjamin netanyahu . " they are not soldiers , they are there to help and feed people . making them a target is unacceptable . their response for us as a family wasn ' t nice to listen to ," he said . much of the gaza strip has been devastated during the israeli military operation that began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . about 130 of the hostages remain in captivity , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead . more than 32 , 916 people have been killed in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says .