the united nations has responded to israeli claims that one of its aid warehouses in gaza was being used by palestinian gunmen , saying its staff had evacuated and abandoned the compound . the israel defense forces ( idf ) released drone footage that it said showed armed " terrorists roaming and shooting " next to marked un vehicles at the facility in eastern rafah on saturday . it warned the un " of the danger that exists in the presence of the terrorists in the logistics centre ". the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa , said the footage did likely show one of its warehouses but said it had been abandoned earlier last week , after evacuation orders were issued by the idf . unrwa ' s communications director , juliette touma , told bbc news the agency was unable to verify the authenticity or the content of the footage , and that it did not have any information on the timing or exact location . she stressed that un staff had evacuated the compound prior to saturday , leaving behind some vehicles and food aid . she said under no circumstances should anyone have or use weapons in a un facility . israel has previously accused unrwa workers of being members of hamas and participating in the 7 october attacks on southern israel that triggered the war in gaza . a un - commissioned review found israel had failed to provide evidence to back up the claim . the drone footage released by the idf on tuesday is in three parts . bbc news has verified that it does show an unrwa food distribution warehouse in eastern rafah . it has not been possible to verify that the footage was filmed on saturday . the first piece of drone footage shows three men dressed in black , with weapons slung over their shoulders , standing between two white cars with un markings . in the second , a man is seen passing a weapon - a rifle - through the window of a white , unmarked pickup truck parked next to a large building with un markings on its roof . the third piece shows a figure in black chasing people from the compound at gunpoint and gesturing them away . from the 49 seconds of released footage , it is not possible to confirm whether weapons were fired , as claimed by the idf . the idf has presented this video as evidence of un complicity with hamas , and it has been seized upon by some of israel ’ s supporters and critics of the un . idf spokesman lt col peter lerner posted the footage on x , formerly twitter , writing : " the un needs to answer some serious questions . imagine what would ’ ve happened if we were to target them ? the hypocrisy is astounding ." he said that , in his view , " the warehouse was not being evacuated " and that hamas was " strutting around like they own the place ". he added : " unrwa pledges neutrality , no weapons allowed on their sites . there is nothing neutral about hamas gunmen with their pickups and ak - 47 on the un premises ." unrwa ' s assertion that its staff had already left the compound leaves open the possibility others had moved in to make use of the abandoned buildings and vehicles . bbc news has approached the idf for a response but is yet to hear back . israel is yet to fully explain the circumstances surrounding the death of a un security worker on monday . former indian army officer waibhav kale was killed , and his jordanian colleague injured , when their car was fired on near rafah . social media footage , verified by the bbc , showed a marked un vehicle with multiple bullet holes outside the european gaza hospital . the idf said an initial inquiry indicated the vehicle was struck in an active combat zone and it had not been made aware of its route . the rafah aid distribution centre was previously hit by an air strike on 13 march , killing one member of unrwa ' s staff and injuring 22 . the idf said it had killed a hamas commander in a " precise strike ". bbc news has verified that the march air strike hit the same facility shown in this latest video , and that the new footage was filmed after that strike . several nations , including the uk , stopped funding unrwa after israel alleged some of its staff were members of hamas who participated in the 7 october attacks . a review commissioned by the un said israel had not provided evidence to back up the claim , but it found that unrwa should improve its neutrality , staff vetting and transparency . additional reporting by alba morgade & ben garman .