the israeli military has released the findings of its investigation into its attack on a convoy in gaza which killed seven aid workers . the israeli defense forces ( idf ) say the vehicles were hit by missiles after its drone operators mistakenly thought they were carrying hamas gunmen . the idf says it has dismissed two senior military officers and reprimanded two others . since the attack on 1 april , bbc verify has been studying images of its aftermath , shared on social media , to try to piece together what we know about the incident . the group of world central kitchen ( wck ) aid workers were travelling in three cars - two of them armoured . they were part of a convoy delivering more than 100 tonnes of food supplies from a recently constructed pier to a warehouse in deir al - balah in central gaza , according to wck . it says their movements had been co - ordinated with the idf in advance but the investigation has found that this information had not been shared with israeli drone operators tracking the convoy . the idf says they had spotted a gunman riding on the roof of a large aid lorry , that was being escorted by the wck team . drone footage of this was shown to journalists at an idf briefing on 4 april but has not been released . the idf says the convoy was tracked to a warehouse ( labelled ' a ' on the map ) where the aid lorry remained and four " suv - type cars " emerged . it says one contained gunmen - also shown to journalists in drone footage - and headed north but was not targeted because it was close to another aid facility ( labelled ' b '). the three remaining vehicles , belonging to wck , headed south . the investigation says " one of the commanders mistakenly assumed that gunmen were inside the accompanying vehicles and that these were hamas terrorists ". the drone operators , the idf says , had " misidentified " one of the aid workers as a gunman - they thought he was carrying a gun when he entered one of the cars but he was holding a bag . the idf has not shown this footage . the cars were then targeted . images of the three badly damaged vehicles emerged on social media and have been analysed by bbc verify to work out where they were struck . they were located along a stretch of road and were 2 . 5km ( 1 . 5 miles ) apart , which suggests there was more than one strike . the idf report confirms this . it says the first vehicle was struck at 2309 , the second at 2311 and the third at 2313 . the wck head jose andres says those in the convoy had tried to call the idf during the attack . " they were targeted systemically car by car . they attacked the first car . they were able to move in the second one . again this one was hit . they were able to move in ( into ) the third one ." " it was a direct hit . they tried to treat some of them and put them in another car in front . but they shelled the car ," said a local resident , who said he had witnessed the strike . bbc verify pinpointed the locations of the strikes by matching visual clues in the photos of the vehicles with satellite images of this part of gaza . in one image of a heavily damaged toyota hilux , as well as the trees and fence beside the vehicle , a lone palm tree stands in a walled enclosure with a distinctive pattern of buildings surrounding it . using satellite images , these features have been matched with a part of al - rashid road - which runs along the coast in central gaza . a second vehicle was pictured with a wck logo on its roof and a large hole in it . a pylon , a section of woodland , a low wall and two distinct roofs can be seen in the background . bbc verify matched the scene to about 800m south of the first vehicle . a third damaged vehicle was photographed in an area of open ground to the south , about 100m off the road . the wck says this third car was a " soft - skin vehicle " - meaning not armoured . it was about 1 . 6km south of the second vehicle and 2 . 5km of the first . the idf says drone - fired missiles were used in the attack . this confirms the initial analysis from military experts who we sent images of the vehicles to on 2 april . chris cobb - smith , a former british army officer and ex - un weapons inspector , told us the attack was probably the result of drone - launched spike missiles . spike missiles are a type of powerful weapon , usually launched against tanks and other armoured vehicles . justin crump , a former british army officer who runs sibylline - a risk intelligence company - agreed that the attack " was likely drone - launched and targeted ". the idf said that the wck logo - on top of one of the vehicles - was not visible at night to the drone operator . footage shown at the idf briefing appeared to confirm this , according to a bbc journalist who attended it . " the nature of the logos and markings visible on the vehicles , while colourful and suitable for daytime recognition , would appear to stand out much less obviously at night depending on the exact nature of the system used ", mr crump told us . wck had already shared the coordinates and journey details of the aid convoy with the israeli military . the seven aid workers killed were named by wck as : images of the aid workers ' bodies were first posted on social media just before 22 : 30 bst on 1 april . graphic videos showed the bodies of five individuals . two more bodies were recovered from deir al - balah later on , the palestine red crescent society said on x . wck logos were visible on bulletproof vests on at least three of the deceased . videos also showed colleagues from wck identifying the bodies . " these are the people who brought the aid from the sea ," one said , before crying out as he recognised a palestinian aid worker killed . additional reporting by merlyn thomas , osob elmi and joshua cheetham . this article , originally published on 2 april , has been updated to reflect the findings of the idf investigation . we have asked the idf to release its drone footage of the incident . what do you want bbc verify to investigate ?