it wasn ' t just the past they were remembering today . beside the rows of fresh graves at israel ' s mount herzl military cemetery , new plots were still being marked out - too recent for a memorial stone , their empty shapes heaped with flowers . next to them , the vacant space stretched , shadowed with the future losses of israel ' s ongoing war . the crowd packed around them - some in uniform , some in tears - saluted or bowed their heads as the morning siren sounded to mark remembrance day ; the price of israel ' s previous conflicts laid out in the cemetery , beneath the pines , across the years . israel ' s defence ministry says the names of 826 people from the security forces were added to the list of the country ' s fallen this year , along with 834 victims of terrorist attacks - almost all of them from the 7 october hamas attacks and the gaza war that followed . faced with the human cost of his current war , israel ' s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , offered a reminder of why he was asking families to pay it . " it ' s either us - israel ; or them - the monsters of hamas ," he said . " it ' s either existence , liberty , security and prosperity ; or annihilation , massacre , rape and subjugation . we are determined to win ." his speech was noticeably less belligerent than usual - his calls to continue " until victory " toned down - but he again justified the continuation of the war by quoting those paying the highest price . a soldier who had both legs amputated , he said , had urged him to " continue until the end ". doron perez said he had only been half - listening to the prime minister - his mind had been on his son , daniel , a tank commander who was killed during 7 october attacks . two months ago the family buried daniel ' s bloodied uniform beneath his memorial at mount herzl - his body is still being held by hamas in gaza . "[ almost ] 25 , 000 soldiers have lost their lives since the establishment of the state of israel ," doron said . " and for me , this particular battle was the most obvious in terms of the need to put our lives on the line . this is not a political issue , this is about the very existence of israel . it was one of those ' to be or not to be ' moments ." despite the support from some families , this memorial day is a sensitive moment for israel ' s prime minister . beneath the national unity shown for the country ' s war dead are growing questions - and growing divisions - about israel ' s war aims , and their results . israel ' s army is currently fighting hamas in areas of northern and central gaza that were previously declared clear . fourteen israeli soldiers were reported dead last week alone . the deaths of many more palestinians last week barely figure here . standing before the grave of his daughter rebecca , robert baruch said there was family history scattered around the cemetery - an uncle buried yards away , killed during israel ' s war of independence in 1948 . " i don ' t know how we ' ll look back on this in twenty years - i hope we ' ll say this was a last terrible phase in something that ended in good . but at what cost ?" without a clear plan for the day after the war , and with more than 130 hostages still being held there , mr netanyahu ' s determination to continue fighting in gaza is creating growing conflict at home too . on sunday night , israel ' s military chief of staff , lt gen herzi halevi , said he felt the weight of the hamas attacks on his shoulders every day . " i am responsible for answering the poignant questions that drive sleep from your eyes ," he told bereaved families . israel ' s prime minister , by contrast , has been full of praise for his forces ' sense of responsibility , almost silent on his own . but his focus on fallen heroes does not address the accusations against him : that it was on his watch that hamas grew strong enough to launch last october ' s attack ; on his watch that israel ' s intelligence failed - and that his choice to continue the conflict now is rooted in his own political survival . benjamin netanyahu is facing a military war in gaza , and a growing political war at home .