relatives of an israeli held captive in gaza were reportedly among those arrested by police at a protest in tel aviv , after the latest talks on a truce and the release of hostages broke down . some family members and activists used cages to block a main road on tuesday night , as they demanded more be done to free those still being held by hamas . their calls have become more desperate since negotiators returned from qatar . one israeli official said the indirect talks had reached " a dead end ". mediators had been pushing a deal for a six - week halt in israel ' s offensive in gaza in return for the release of 40 of the remaining 130 hostages . at least 30 hostages are presumed dead . about 300 people took part in tuesday ' s demonstration outside the israeli military ' s headquarters in tel aviv - some of them locked in cages , some with placards saying " no price is too high ". israeli police said they had arrested four protesters " following a disturbance ". " the police acted with the required sensitivity and allowed the protest of some of the hostages ' families even though it was not legal ," a statement added . " however , some of the protesters decided to go down to ayalon highway and block traffic , endangering motorists and themselves ." israeli media said two of those arrested were relatives of 79 - year - old hostage avraham munder . they included his nephew , shahar mor zahiro , who later confirmed in a video outside a police station that he had been held for almost three hours . mr munder was kidnapped along with his wife ruth , his daughter keren , and his grandson ohad , when hamas fighters stormed into southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages , according to israeli tallies . ruth , keren and ohad were released during a week - long ceasefire in november under a deal that saw 105 hostages - most of them women and children - freed in return for some 240 palestinian prisoners in israeli jails . israeli opposition leader yair lapid said the state " should show much more compassion and sensitivity to the families of the hostages ". " they and their families were abandoned , and their fight is the most just fight there is ," he wrote on x , formerly twitter . " the minimum is to let them scream out their cries ." there have been almost daily demonstrations by the hostages ' families , but their anguish has been heightened by the news that israeli officials have been recalled from the talks in doha mediated by qatar , egypt and the us . on tuesday , one senior israeli official close to mossad director david barnea - who is heading the israeli negotiating team - told reuters news agency that they were " at a dead end " because of hamas ' s demands . israel had agreed to double to 700 or 800 the number of palestinian prisoners it would release in exchange for 40 hostages - including elderly people , women , children and the sick - and also to allow some displaced palestinians to return to their homes in northern gaza , the official said . hamas said on monday that it had rejected the latest truce proposal and that it was sticking to its original position calling for a permanent ceasefire that would lead to a full withdrawal of israeli troops from gaza . the israeli prime minister ' s office said hamas ' s stance demonstrated its " utter disinterest " in a deal and that it showed the " damage " done by a un security council resolution demanding an immediate ceasefire . but the us said the israeli statement was " inaccurate in almost every respect and it is unfair to the hostages and their families " because hamas ' s response had been " prepared before the un security council vote ". qatar meanwhile insisted the talks were " ongoing " and " have not stopped ". a halt to the fighting seems as far off as ever on the ground in gaza , where more than 32 , 490 people have been killed since the start of the war , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . amid the rising risk of a man - made famine in the north because only a trickle of aid is getting in , this week has again seen crowds waiting for airdrops of food along the coast . however , at least 18 people are said to have died , with graphic videos showing some drowning as they tried to retrieve aid packages from the sea , with others said to have been killed in stampedes .