israel ’ s prime minister benjamin netanyahu has dissolved his six - member war cabinet , a widely expected decision that follows the departure of centrist opposition leader benny gantz and his ally gadi eisenkot . israeli media report that sensitive issues about the war with hamas in gaza will now be decided by a smaller forum . since mr gantz quit eight days ago over what he said was the lack of strategy for the war , there have been calls from far - right ministers to take his place . by dissolving the war cabinet , mr netanyahu avoids a tricky situation with his coalition partners and international allies . a spokesman for the israel defense forces ( idf ) said that , as far as it was concerned , it would not affect the chain of command . mr gantz and mr eisenkot joined a national unity government with mr netanyahu ’ s right - wing coalition days after the start of the war in october . the two former idf chiefs of staff announced their resignations on 9 june , with mr gantz saying that the prime minister ’ s leadership was “ preventing us from approaching true victory ”. immediately afterwards , far - right national security minister itamar ben - gvir said he had written to mr netanyahu to demand that he be added to the war cabinet . on sunday night , mr netanyahu reportedly informed ministers that he had decided to dissolve the decision - making body rather than bring in new members .“ the [ war ] cabinet was in the coalition agreement with gantz at his request . as soon as gantz left - there is no need for a cabinet anymore ," he said , according to the jerusalem post . haaretz reported that some of the issues previously discussed by the war cabinet would be transferred for discussion in the 14 - member security cabinet , which includes mr ben - gvir and fellow far - right finance minister bezalel smotrich . it said sensitive decisions would be addressed in a “ smaller consultation forum ”, which was expected to include defence minister yoav gallant , strategic affairs minister ron dermer and the chairman of the ultra - orthodox shas party , aryeh deri . the three men were in the war cabinet along with the prime minister , mr gantz and mr eisenkot . the idf ' s chief spokesman , rear admiral daniel hagari , insisted on monday that such moves would not affect its operations ." cabinet members are being changed and the method is being changed . we have the echelon , we know the chain of command . we ' re working according to the chain of command . this is a democracy ,” he told reporters . the israeli military launched a campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to an unprecedented attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage . more than 37 , 340 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . there have been further signs of strain in the israeli government in the past day , with mr netanyahu and his far - right ministers criticising a decision by the idf to introduce daytime “ tactical pauses in military activity ” near the southern gaza city of rafah to allow more deliveries of humanitarian aid . the pauses are meant to allow lorries to collect aid from the israeli - controlled kerem shalom border crossing , south - east of rafah , and then travel safely to reach the main north - south road inside gaza . supplies have been held back at the crossing point since israel began an operation in rafah last month . but mr ben - gvir decried the policy as foolish , while israeli media quoted mr netanyahu as saying : “ we have a country with an army , not an army with a country .” the idf responded by saying that the pauses did not mean the fighting in southern gaza would stop , which created confusion over what exactly was happening on the ground . the un agency for palestinian refugees ( unrwa ), which is the largest humanitarian organisation in gaza , reported that fighting was continuing in rafah and elsewhere in the south on monday and that “ operationally nothing has changed yet ”. the idf meanwhile said that its troops were “ continuing intelligence - based , targeted operations in the area of rafah ”. it added that they had located weapons , struck structures rigged with explosives and eliminated “ several terrorists ” in the tal al - sultan area . with little sign of progress towards a full ceasefire in gaza , there have been new warnings from the israeli military that the lower - level conflict with the lebanese armed group hezbollah is now threatening to spiral into a wider war . following a recent intensification in exchanges of fire , a key us diplomat is returning to the region to try to reduce tensions on the israel - lebanon border .