us officials say israel hit iran with a missile in the early hours of friday , in what appears to have been a retaliatory strike after weeks of escalating tensions between the two countries . there are competing claims about the scale of the attack on the isfahan region and the extent of any damage , with iranian state media downplaying its significance . it comes after weeks of soaring tensions between the regional rivals , which have already seen an israeli attack on an iranian compound in syria , and iran launch an unprecedented assault against israel . here is everything we know about the latest incident so far . israel does not routinely confirm its military actions , which have targeted iranian - backed armed groups in syria and iraq on many occasions . however , us officials have confirmed to the bbc ' s partner cbs news that an israeli missile did hit iran . us sources say a missile was involved in the attack , while iran says it involved small drones . iran ' s government tightly controls access to the country . the bbc does not have direct access to the central region of isfahan , where this incident played out overnight . so far , there has been a lot of speculation regarding the type of missile used . bbc verify has tried to identify the weapon by analysing images of wreckage posted from an area in neighbouring iraq , 60km ( 45 miles ) south - west of the capital baghdad . among experts , there now seems to be a wider consensus in thinking that a two - stage missile was used - and was probably air - launched . many identify the debris with israeli - produced blue sparrow missiles . justin crump , a former british army officer who runs risk intelligence company sibylline , agreed that the debris seen in the pictures was probably from a missile booster " with the warhead having detached and presumably gone on to achieve its mission - this is the motor which falls to earth ". " the booster has attachment points typically used to connect to an aircraft and its general size suggests it may have been an air - launched system ," crump said . although we cannot yet independently verify the exact type of missile , it is known that israel has developed this type of weapon . " israel has previously used such weapons in syria , so this is well within their capabilities ," crump added . some iranian officials and media have confirmed there was an attempted strike but are downplaying the significance of it . there have been no reports of casualties . iran ' s fars news agency says explosions were heard near an army base and air defence systems were activated . explosions heard in the isfahan area were " due to air defence firing at suspicious objects " and there was no damage , a state media channel quoted a general as saying . the semi - official tasnim news agency , which is close to the powerful islamic revolution guard corps military wing , posted a video of a nuclear facility in isfahan which did not show any signs it had been hit . the international atomic energy agency has confirmed there was no damage to iran ' s nuclear sites . hossein dalirian , a spokesman for iran ' s national centre of cyberspace , said there had been " no air attack from outside borders ". he said israel had " only made a failed and humiliating attempt to fly quadcopters [ drones ]" which had been shot down . iran imposed restrictions on commercial flights in the hours immediately after the strike but they have now been lifted . explosions were also reported overnight in iraq and syria - where armed groups backed by iran operate - but it is unclear if they were directly linked to the isfahan strike . the syrian defence ministry said an air defence site in the south of syria had been hit by an israeli missile in the early hours of friday morning local time . israel has not confirmed it was behind the strike . isfahan province is a large area in the centre of iran which takes its name from its largest city . the region is home to significant iranian military infrastructure , including a large air base , a major missile production complex and several nuclear facilities . israel would usually tell the us in advance about military action , but italy ' s foreign minister antonio tajani told reporters at the g7 meeting in capri that washington had only been " informed at the very last minute ". speaking at the summit , us secretary of state antony blinken refused to be drawn on the attack , saying only that the us had " not been involved in any offensive operations ". this latest strike comes less than a week after iran launched hundreds of missiles and drones at israel , an incident seen as a dramatic escalation in tensions . despite its vast scale and unprecedented nature , iran ' s attack was largely unsuccessful , with the vast majority of projectiles shot down by israeli air defences with the help of the us , uk and other allies . that unprecedented attack on israeli soil was in response to a strike against a building on an iranian diplomatic compound in syria on 1 april . israel has not publicly confirmed it was behind that strike either , but it is widely accepted that it was . the full significance of this latest strike is still becoming clear and it is not yet known whether iran will seek to respond . bbc security correspondent frank gardener describes the scale of friday ' s attack as limited and potentially designed to ensure the conflict goes no further . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu will come under competing pressures from some of his own generals and political allies to push back against iran , according to bbc international editor jeremy bowen . israel has come under huge international pressure from the us and other western allies not to take any action which risks turning the long - running proxy war between the two middle east rivals into a direct conflict . this flare - up in hostilities comes against the backdrop of the war in gaza , where the israeli military is fighting iran - backed hamas . some of the responses from within israel have highlighted the country ' s political divisions . ultranationalist security minister itamar ben gvir described the strike on iran as " feeble " or " lame ". in response , israeli opposition leader yair lapid called for him to be sacked , and said his remark had ridiculed and embarrassed israel . the uk government said it would not speculate on the strike , but said israel should avoid " significant escalation " while exercising its " right to self - defence ". european commission president ursula von der leyen called on all sides to refrain from further action . there are concerns a worsening conflict in the middle east could disrupt oil supplies . brent crude , the international benchmark for oil prices , rose by 1 . 8 % to $ 88 a barrel after the attack . oil prices had jumped by as much as 3 . 5 % initially but the price stabilised when it became clearer the strike was limited . the price of gold - which is often seen as a safe investment at times of uncertainty - briefly came close to a record high before falling back to nearly $ 2 , 400 an ounce .