an israel - gaza peace mural that was defaced two weeks after its unveiling in east london has been painted over by transport for london ( tfl ). the mural appeared on a tfl - owned building on old street , shoreditch in february and was created by the charity , circle of toys . it featured two girls - one in a headscarf waving an israeli flag and another waving the flag of palestine . tfl says it painted it black " as not to encourage any antisocial behaviour ". arthur corvin powells , founder of circle of toys told the bbc that the idea behind the mural was to bring attention " to those suffering from war and moving it away from the politics that dominates the news agenda ". he also said plans to replace the mural were under way . any future mural would be more reflective of all global conflicts , not just israel - gaza , he added . tfl has acknowledged the charity ' s aims and said the mural was painted without their permission . it was removed " in a considerate way so as not to encourage any antisocial behaviour ", tfl added . it has also urged circle of toys to seek an alternative location for any future displays to avoid them being painted over again . circle of toys was set up following russia ' s invasion of ukraine with the goal of sending toys to children caught up in the conflict . it recently established a base in the middle east with the aim of encouraging people to donate toys to children in israel and the palestinian territories . while the graffitied mural drew attention to their cause , it also received considerable backlash . one media outlet , mint press , called the display " bizarre " and labelled it a " normalisation mural ". sprayed onto the mural were the words : ' palestinian children killed since 07 . 09 . 23 11 , 500 ' and ' funded by your taxes . murder is murder '. the spray paint refers to 7 september 2023 , which is likely to mean 7 october 2023 when hamas attacked israel , starting the war . israel says more than 1 , 200 civilians were killed in the attack and more than 250 people taken hostage - of whom 130 are estimated to still be held by hamas . in response , israel conducted significant retaliatory attacks on gaza . the hamas - run health ministry has estimated more than 30 , 000 people have been killed in the strikes . israel has also forcefully displaced more than 85 % of gaza ' s population , causing a humanitarian crisis in the region . tensions have spilled over to london , with the metropolitan police reporting that hate crimes against both muslim and jewish communities have increased substantially in the aftermath of the 7 october attack . listen to the best of bbc radio london on sounds and follow bbc london on facebook , x and instagram . send your story ideas to hello . bbclondon @ bbc . co . uk