labour has suspended a local election candidate and withdrawn its support due to anti - israel posts he apparently shared on social media , it is understood . abdur razaq had been running for the party in the preston with preston grange ward on north tyneside council . the local democracy reporting service understands labour took action after facebook posts shared last year came to light . mr razaq has been approached for comment by the bbc . north tyneside labour did not comment . the posts appeared following the 7 october attacks in israel , which triggered the war on hamas in gaza . it is claimed one post on 20 october called israel a “ terrorist nation ”, while another shared in december compared photos of gaza in 2023 and nazi germany in 1943 . a labour spokesperson said : “ thanks to keir starmer ’ s leadership , the party has ripped out antisemitism at its roots . we will continue to fight antisemitism and all forms of hate speech every day of the week , it has no place in the labour party .” the party said it cannot comment on individual cases as disciplinary proceedings are independent and confidential . a spokesperson for north tyneside conservatives said : “ local labour must now explain why candidates were not vetted properly before being put to voters . there should be a full review into how they can root out discrimination and antisemitism in all of its forms ." green candidate nick fitzsimons said : " to be transparent ; i don ' t know mr razaq and i haven ' t seen the posts in question , but if the reports are accurate , this is clearly completely unacceptable behaviour ." independent candidate cath davis said : " i ' m standing as an independent now as it means i can directly serve my residents instead of the party politics that is constantly being played out in [ the ] council ." mr razaq - listed as raz razaq - will still be listed as a labour candidate on the ballot paper for the local elections on 2 may , as under electoral law it is too late for the party to replace him . north tyneside council was unable to comment . follow bbc north east on x ( formerly twitter ), facebook and instagram . send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .