after months of stalemate , the search for peace in gaza has reached a critical stage . un chief antonio guterres says it is a " decisive moment for the palestinian and israeli people and for the fate of the entire region ". there seems to be common ground between most sides about the principles : a ceasefire should take place alongside the release of israeli hostages and palestinian prisoners . various draft agreements have been drawn up , setting out a complex process of how it would all work . there is some disagreement over the detail of what should happen to whom and when and in what order . israeli officials say , for example , that its female soldiers should be released earlier than envisaged . they also say the texts should be clearer that the first 33 hostages to be released must be alive and are worried about not having a veto over which palestinian prisoners would be released . these are issues that could potentially be surmounted through negotiation . but there is a more fundamental sticking point about a core principle that may be harder to get past and that is when the war should end . the opening words of the draft agreement - supported by hamas - declares that there should be a " temporary cessation of military operations between the two parties ". this is largely unproblematic . six weeks would pass while people are released , israeli forces withdraw from some areas , displaced gazans would be able to return to what if anything is left of their homes . but then stage two would begin . the draft agreement then talks about a " return to sustainable calm ", which it defines as " a permanent cessation of military and hostile operations ". it is this that seems to be unacceptable to israel ' s government . in a statement , the prime minister benjamin netanyahu said : " israel will not allow hamas to restore its evil rule in the gaza strip , israel will not allow it to restore its military capabilities to continue striving for our destruction . israel cannot accept a proposal that endangers the security of our citizens and the future of our country ." in other words , israel ' s government wants the right to continue taking the fight to hamas in the long run . by contrast , hamas wants a permanent ceasefire . what is not clear is whether there is a way for qatari , egyptian and american negotiators to find a middle path through this . it may be that all of this is part of the negotiation . public statements are frequently used in negotiations to put pressure on the other side . the announcement by hamas that it supports a particular draft could be an attempt to push israel into making concessions and divide it from its allies . israel ' s warnings about an imminent military operation in rafah could be an attempt to extract better terms from hamas . but the question of whether any ceasefire is permanent or not looks hard to square with clever diplomatic language . israel has agreed to send a delegation to cairo but with modest ambitions - not to hammer out a deal but " to exhaust the possibility of reaching an agreement under conditions acceptable to israel ". much will depend on what the us government decides . so far , us spokespeople have fallen over themselves to avoid making any comment on the deal hamas has signed up to . they have limited themselves to asserting that an agreement is still " achievable " and to warning firmly against a military operation in rafah . that is because if the us were to throw its weight behind the current text , then mr netanyahu might be forced to choose between his main ally and the ultra - nationalist hardliners propping up his government who oppose any compromise . mr netanyahu has survived many crises in his political career by postponing difficult decisions . but president biden has it in his gift to force israel ' s leader to make a choice that he might rather avoid .