coach pedro martinez losa said it was his " duty to lead scotland whether i feel comfortable playing against israel or not " as he named his squad for the two women ' s european championship qualifiers in may and june . pro - palestinian protests are expected outside hampden park for scotland ' s home match on 31 may , and ticket restrictions are already in place . only scotland supporters ' club members or those who have gone to any of scotland women ' s past four home matches can buy tickets . asked about the potential for protests because of the ongoing gaza war , martinez losa said : " that is an aspect we cannot control . " as a head coach , i am not in control of these circumstances . we have been put in a position where uefa has said we have to play these games ." whether i ' m comfortable or not from my personal view doesn ' t matter , the job has to be done for scotland and i remain focused on that ." we will discuss the disruptions of restricted tickets and venue changes with the leadership group and staff to make sure players are protected ." after the first game in glasgow , scotland then face israel on 4 june at the bsc stadium in budapest , hungary as they continue their push for a place in the finals in switzerland next summer . forwards kirsty hanson and martha thomas are back in the spanish coach ' s squad for the games against israel . aston villa winger hanson and tottenham hotspur forward thomas are joined in the pool by rangers full - back rachel mclauchlan following injury . glasgow city winger lauren davidson and celtic playmaker amy gallacher drop out while ac milan midfielder christy grimshaw , glasgow city forward fiona brown and manchester city goalkeeper sandy maciver are all missing because of acl injuries . there is also no place for hibernian defender leah eddie and glasgow city midfielder hayley lauder . eddie , lauder and grimshaw pulled out of the last camp and were replaced by brogan hay , kelly clark and christie harrison - murray . hay and clark are in martinez losa ' s latest squad but harrison - murray - who came on in the opening qualifier against serbia - has not been named . scotland ' s qualification campaign got under way against serbia last month with a 0 - 0 draw in leskovac . that was followed by a 1 - 0 win against slovakia at hampden thanks to sophie howard ' s header . scotland sit joint top of group b2 with serbia on four points while israel have lost both qualifying games so far . scotland squad to face israeljenna clark ( liverpool ), kelly clark ( celtic ), chelsea cornet ( rangers ), rachel corsie ( aston villa ), eartha cumings ( rosengard ), erin cuthbert ( chelsea ), nicola docherty ( rangers ), claire emslie ( angel city ), lisa evans ( bristol city ), sarah ewens ( rangers ), jenna fife ( rangers ), lee gibson ( glasgow city ), kirsty hanson ( aston villa ), brogan hay ( rangers ), sophie howard ( leicester city ), kirsty howat ( rangers ), sam kerr ( bayern ), rachel mclauchlan ( rangers ), jamie - lee napier ( bristol city ), amy rodgers ( bristol city ), jane ross ( rangers ), kirsty smith ( west ham united ), martha thomas ( tottenham hotspur ).