israeli protesters blocked aid trucks destined for gaza on monday , throwing food packages onto the road and ripping bags of grain open in the occupied west bank . the lorries , which were set upon at the tarqumiya checkpoint west of hebron , came from jordan and were headed to the gaza strip , where people are in desperate need of humanitarian aid . the white house has condemned the attack , describing the " looting " of aid convoys as " a total outrage ". the group reportedly behind the protest said they were demonstrating against the continued detention of israeli hostages in gaza . unverified footage shared on social media showed protesters toppling boxes from lorries onto the ground , and stomping on them once they had fallen . some videos appeared to show vehicles being set on fire later in the evening . the bbc has not been able to independently verify these . according to reports in israeli media , the tzav 9 activist group were responsible for organising the protest . israeli media reports describe it as a right - wing group which is seeking to halt humanitarian aid transfers into gaza while israeli hostages are held there . one protester told afp news agency she was at the checkpoint on monday because she heard aid trucks were on " their way to the hands of the hamas , who are trying to kill other soldiers and other israeli citizens ". hana giat , 33 , said " no food should go into gaza " until israeli hostages are returned " healthy and alive ". in a statement cited by the jerusalem post , tzav 9 rejected some of the protesters ' actions , saying that " acts were committed today that are not in line with the values of our movement ". it added , however , that " blocking the trucks is an effective and practical step in which we shout that ' no aid passes until the last of the hostages returns '". four protesters , including a minor , were arrested at the demonstration , according to a statement from their lawyers . us national security adviser jake sullivan said the protesters ' behaviour was " completely and utterly unacceptable " and the white house was raising its concerns with " the highest level of the israeli government ". the humanitarian situation in gaza - the intended destination of the aid trucks - is a matter of grave concern among many in the international community . the un ' s world food programme has warned that palestinians in northern gaza are experiencing a " full - blown famine ". in the south , where most palestinians have sought refuge , the humanitarian situation has deteriorated after israel launched an operation in eastern rafah , closing the entry point for aid via egypt . aid agencies say getting supplies through another southern crossing , kerem shalom , is also extremely difficult due to the security situation there . israel has long maintained that it is committed to facilitating deliveries of humanitarian aid into and within gaza and has accused hamas of stealing the aid designated for civilians . the incident came on the same day a un staff member was killed and another injured as they travelled to a hospital in gaza . un says staff member killed in gazagaza war weighs heavily as israel marks memorial daymonday ' s incident coincided with israel ' s memorial day , as the country stopped to pay its respects to those who have lost their lives in war and terrorism . according to israel ' s defence ministry , the names of 826 people from the security forces were added to the list of the country ' s fallen this year , alongside 834 victims of terrorist attacks . almost all of them were from the 7 october hamas attacks and the war that followed in gaza . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s attack on southern israel last year , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage . more than 35 , 090 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . while the israeli offensive has been focused on the gaza strip , tensions between israeli settlers and palestinians in the west bank have heightened since the start of the war . around 700 , 000 israelis live in 160 settlements alongside 2 . 7 million palestinians in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem , according to the settlement watchdog peace now . the international community regards the settlements as illegal , although israel disputes this .