german chancellor olaf scholz has called for more aid to reach gaza on the ground , as he criticised israel ' s plans for a full - scale offensive in the southern city of rafah . israel has previously defended its plans for an offensive in rafah , calling it necessary to bring an end to hamas in the strip . mr scholz ' s remarks come a day after the first maritime aid package to gaza . the shipment contained 200 tonnes of food , including rice , oil and dates . the mission was carried out by us charity world central kitchen ( wck ) in co - operation with the united arab emirates . aid has trickled into gaza slowly since the start of the war , which began after hamas gunmen attacked southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and seizing 253 hostages . since then , more than 31 , 400 people have been killed in gaza , according to the hamas - run health ministry . speaking to reporters ahead of a visit to the middle east , mr scholz described the situation in gaza as " difficult ", adding that it is " necessary for aid to reach gaza on a larger scale now ". he said he will be bringing up the subject during talks with his counterparts in the region . mr scholz went on to stress that germany is concerned about military developments in rafah , which is on the border with egypt . more than a million people from other parts of gaza are sheltering there . " there is a danger that a full - scale offensive in rafah will result in many terrible civilian casualties , which must be avoided at all costs ," mr scholz said . it comes after israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu approved plans for a military operation in rafah , adding that the army was preparing for the evacuation of civilians . defending its strategy , israel says hamas cannot be fully removed in gaza without targeting rafah . israel ' s plans have been criticised by the international community , with the un and us also warning that a full - scale assault in rafah could be disastrous . speaking on thursday , the israel defense forces ( idf ) said it planned to move displaced palestinians in gaza to what it called " humanitarian islands " in the middle of the strip . it is not clear what the " islands " will look like , or how they will operate . a population plagued by deprivation , gazans are in desperate need of food with the united nations previously warning that the enclave is on the brink of famine . cogat , the israeli body that coordinates humanitarian aid to gaza , says that so far this month an average of 126 food trucks have entered each day . it says this is more than the 70 trucks carrying food specifically that entered gaza before the war . some 500 trucks in total entered gaza each day before the war . getting aid in by land is most effective . but military operations and the breakdown of social order have severely hampered aid distribution , leading some countries to try alternative routes - by air and sea . israel denies impeding the entry of aid to gaza and accuses aid organisations of failing to distribute it . meanwhile , israel and hamas could meet in doha for talks on a potential truce deal as soon as sunday . hamas said it had given a " comprehensive vision " to mediators . but mr netanyahu accused the group of making " unrealistic " demands . nevertheless , he agreed to send israeli negotiators to qatar . in an interview with the bbc on saturday , dr margaret harris , spokeswoman for the world health organization ( who ), said it is " good news " to hear there is movement towards a ceasefire . she described that measure as " the only answer " to the current situation in gaza . dr harris said her colleagues on the ground have never seen misery like it . " they have never seen the speed and the horror and the misery the people are living in there , living massively crowded together , starving in places covered in human waste faeces , unable to clean the place because we can ' t even bring chlorine in ".