the chief prosecutor of the international criminal court ( icc ) has applied for arrest warrants for israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and hamas ' s leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , for war crimes . karim khan kc said there were reasonable grounds to believe that both men bore criminal responsibility for war crimes and crimes against humanity from the day of hamas ' s attack on israel on 7 october onwards . israeli defence minister yoav gallant and hamas ' s political leader ismail haniyeh , along with the group ' s military chief mohammed deif , are also wanted for arrest . icc judges will now decide whether they believe the evidence is sufficient to issue arrest warrants - something which could take weeks or months . mr netanyahu said in a statement that he rejected " with disgust the hague prosecutor ' s comparison between democratic israel and the mass murderers of hamas ". us president joe biden described the icc prosecutor ' s move as " outrageous ". israel ' s foreign minister israel katz called the move by mr khan an " unrestrained frontal assault " on the victims of the 7 october attacks and a " historical disgrace that will be remembered forever ". he announced that a special command centre would be set up to fight the decision , which he said was intended to tie israel ' s hands and deny it the right to self - defence . hamas demanded the “ cancellation of all arrest warrants issued against leaders of the palestinian resistance ” and denounced what it called mr khan ' s " attempts ... to equate the victim with the executioner ". the group also complained that the application for warrants against mr netanyahu and mr gallant had come “ seven months late ”, and that other israeli political and military leaders had not been named alongside them . mr khan accused the hamas leaders of having committed crimes including extermination , murder , hostage taking , rape and sexual violence , and torture ." the crimes against humanity charged were part of a widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population of israel by hamas and other armed groups ," he said in a statement . " some of these crimes , in our assessment , continue to this day ." hamas , he said , had inflicted " unfathomable pain through calculated cruelty and extreme callousness ". he said israel ' s prime minister and defence minister were suspected of crimes including starvation of civilians as a method of warfare , murder , intentionally directing attacks against a civilian population , and extermination . mr khan said his office had evidence that israel had " intentionally and systematically deprived the civilian population in all parts of gaza of objects indispensable to human survival ". israel , he said , has a right to defend itself but not by " intentionally causing death , starvation , great suffering , and serious injury to body or health of the civilian population " which he said were criminal acts . israeli war cabinet minister benny gantz - a political rival of mr netanyahu - denounced the prosecutor ' s decision . " drawing parallels between the leaders of a democratic country determined to defend itself from despicable terror to leaders of a bloodthirsty terror organisation is a deep distortion of justice and blatant moral bankruptcy ," he said . the accusations against the israeli and hamas leaders stem from the events of 7 october , when waves of hamas gunmen attacked israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 others back to gaza as hostages . the attack triggered the current war , in which at least 35 , 500 palestinians have been killed in gaza , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . neither israel nor qatar are members of the icc , but the palestinian territories were admitted as a member state in 2015 . in the event of warrants being issued , the icc would rely on member countries to carry out an arrest . no western - style democracy has had an icc arrest warrant issued for its leader before . should mr netanyahu become the first , it will deeply alarm israel and its allies , as well as testing the powers of limitations of the icc . us secretary of state antony blinken also issued a statement rejecting the icc ' s announcement , and said the court " has no jurisdiction over this matter " in the eyes of the us .