a former scotland cricketer and bbc pundit has apologised for social media comments relating to the ongoing conflict in gaza where he compared world leaders to hitler . qasim sheikh , who was capped 32 times for his country , retweeted a mocked up picture of world leaders , including rishi sunak , joe biden and benjamin netanyahu with hitler - style moustaches under the words " kids killers union ." the former batsman also referred to rishi sunak and sir keir starmer as " genocide enablers ." in a statement mr sheikh said the 7 october attack by hamas on israel was " morally reprehensible " and that he wanted " all conflict " to stop . the bbc said it had spoken to mr sheikh about the posts and it issued a statement on his behalf . it read : " if my messages have caused people to think i am supporting the attacks of 7 october , then that would not sit well with me , and i apologise for any offence this has caused . " i would never seek to support any loss of innocent lives . that was not my intention ." mr sheikh said that he welcomed the opportunity to " clearly state " his views and that there was " no way " he would have supported the 7 october attacks on israel , when hamas fighters entered the country and killed around 1 , 200 people , while taking hundreds more hostage . since then israel has vowed to " crush " hamas , leading to several months of fighting and a more than 36 , 000 palestinian deaths , according to the hamas - run health ministry in gaza . mr sheikh stated : " there is no way i would support what happened on 7 october as acceptable , it was morally reprehensible . as is the ongoing situation in gaza where many innocent lives continue to be lost - many of which are women and children . " i will continue to call for a stop on the killing of innocent civilians , my message is clear for a ceasefire and a stop to all conflict ." mr sheikh was one of a number of former scotland players who previously raised complaints about governing body scottish cricket . that led to an independent report that found the leadership of the governing body to be institutionally racist , with 448 instances of racism found in the sport . in 2023 four members of cricket scotland ' s equality and anti - racism working group resigned over what they said was a lack of progress in tackling racism in the sport . that decision prompted chairman anjan luthra to stand down as well . mr sheik has recently appeared as a pundit for bbc radio 5live and bbc radio scotland ’ s weekend sportsound programme .