benjamin netanyahu has told uk foreign secretary lord cameron that israel would " make its own decisions " over how to respond to an iranian attack . he said his government would " do everything necessary to defend itself " during talks the british government had hoped would help prevent escalation . mr netanyahu has repeatedly vowed to retaliate to the unprecedented missile and drone assault at the weekend . lord cameron told him any response should be " smart " and limited . speaking to reporters in jerusalem after the meeting with mr netanyahu , lord cameron said he was there to " demonstrate our solidarity " after iran ' s " appalling " attack . he continued : " we hope that anything israel does is as limited and as targeted and as smart as possible . " it ' s in no - one ' s interest that we see escalation and that is what we said very clearly to all the people i ' ve been speaking to here in israel ." after the meeting , the israeli prime minister said : " i want to make it clear - we will make our own decisions , and the state of israel will do everything necessary to defend itself ." mr netanyahu ' s remarks will reinforce the belief in western capitals that israel is set to take action against iran and there is a limit to how often they can call for restraint . israel is more than aware of concerns in europe and the united states about the war escalating in the region . however , western leaders may take comfort from the fact that israeli leaders are trying to exploit the diplomatic support they have gained after iran ' s attacks , which has seen international condemnation and the promise of new sanctions on tehran . it is possible mr netanyahu may not want to destroy that alliance with an act of retaliation that plunges the region into a full - scale war . lord cameron is one of several western foreign ministers who are expected to visit israel in the coming days as part of a diplomatic drive to prevent that from happening . before meeting mr netanyahu , lord cameron held talks with israeli president isaac herzog and israeli foreign affairs minister israel katz . the uk foreign secretary also visited the occupied palestinian territories to meet mohammad mustafa , the prime minister of the palestinian authority . g7 ministers are gathering in italy , where lord cameron will push for co - ordinated sanctions on iran . earlier , he accused tehran of being " behind so much of the malign activity " in the middle east and called for other countries to adopt measures designed to restrict iran ' s influence . the us and european union are considering further sanctions , and israel is calling on its allies to designate the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) - a major military , political and economic force in iran - as a terrorist organisation . the israeli government has repeatedly vowed to retaliate after iran sent more than 300 drones and missiles towards israel in an unprecedented direct attack overnight on saturday . almost all the projectiles were intercepted by israel ' s air defence systems , with the help of the uk , us , france , and jordan . iran ' s direct attack on israel was carried out in response to a strike in syria on 1 april which killed senior iranian military figures . israel has not publicly confirmed it was behind the attack , but is widely believed to have been . on tuesday evening , uk prime minister rishi sunak spoke to mr netanyahu and warned that " significant escalation will only deepen instability in the region ", adding : " this is a moment for calm heads to prevail ." lord cameron will seek to reinforce mr sunak ' s call for restraint during his visit to israel , and put more pressure on its leaders to do more to allow humanitarian aid into gaza - but he is walking a delicate diplomatic line . the foreign secretary will not want to appear to be hectoring an ally which has just been subject to an unprecedented attack on its soil . that is why lord cameron is also talking about the need for hamas to release hostages and the importance of western powers imposing yet more sanctions on iran . his presence in jerusalem is a show of support and solidarity - but also an attempt to warn israeli leaders that any significant escalation would be against their interests and the world ' s .