israel says it is building a new land crossing into northern gaza , where starvation is most acute , after previously promising to open the erez crossing . the new crossing would handle up to 50 aid trucks a day and the first trucks have already crossed it , israeli officials say . israel has also said it will allow the ashdod deep water port a short distance to the north to be used as well as allowing more aid from jordan to enter via the kerem shalom crossing in southern gaza . on wednesday , 10 april , israeli defence minister yoav gallant spoke of gradually increasing gaza aid deliveries to pre - war levels of 500 trucks a day . the number of trucks entering gaza rose and then fell back over the course of the week , with just 147 trucks entering gaza on thursday . it follows the israeli military ' s killing of seven aid workers on 1 april , which prompted the us to tell israel to prevent civilian harm and humanitarian suffering if it wanted to maintain us support . israel imposed a siege on gaza after hamas attacked nearby israeli communities , killing about 1 , 200 people , mostly civilians , and taking about 250 to gaza as hostages . it has hit gaza with an aerial and ground campaign that has killed more than 33 , 000 people , mostly civilians according to the hamas - run health authority . israeli authorities have since allowed some aid in , but the un and aid agencies say some children have died from malnutrition . on wednesday usaid administrator samantha power said parts of gaza were already under famine conditions . the number of trucks carrying food and other aid entering gaza increased - but has since decreased again . on 8 april , 419 aid trucks went in , according to the israeli authorities , including 330 trucks carrying food - more than double the average 140 food trucks a day in march . however , un officials told the bbc the 8 april figure was in fact 223 , less than half the daily number it says is required as a minimum to stem the crisis . un officials have told the bbc that the discrepancy is because israeli screening requirements mean trucks are often only half full . after border checks , goods are moved onto a new set of vetted trucks to travel on into gaza , which are filled nearer to capacity . on friday cogat , the israeli body that coordinates government activities in the occupied territories , said just 147 trucks containing aid entered gaza , while 208 including just 112 containing food were distributed inside gaza . they included an undisclosed number of food trucks that entered through the new border crossing to northern gaza , which israeli media reported was near the zikim kibbutz , to the west of the erez crossing . the israeli military said the trucks had been accompanied by israel defense forces ( idf ) soldiers . on friday philip lazzarini , head of the un ' s palestinian refugee agency , unrwa , said the increase in aid was " not yet tangible , sustained or uninterrupted ". humanitarian agencies , israel ' s allies and other countries have accused israel of not doing enough to ensure that food gets to those who need it . some have accused israel of using starvation as a weapon of war . all aid for gaza is subject to strict israeli security checks aimed at preventing anything that could be used by hamas from entering . but aid groups say these are complex and arbitrary , causing major delays . israel has denied impeding the entry of aid to gaza and accuses aid organisations of failing to distribute it . on thursday cogat said the content of hundreds of aid trucks was waiting to be picked up inside gaza and said : " un , do your job . the bottlenecks are not on the israeli side ." as conditions have deteriorated , the delivery of aid inside gaza has also been accompanied by deadly violence . in one incident , the israeli military killed seven aid workers working for world central kitchen ( wck ), a charity that israel was working with to distribute aid coming in by boat from cyprus . israel apologised and took action against the unit involved . there have been regular reports of shooting at palestinians gathering to receive the little aid that has arrived in northern gaza . the hamas - run ministry of health in gaza and local palestinians have accused israeli forces of firing on desperate people . in the bloodiest incident , more than 100 people were killed on 29 february when a convoy arrived at al - rashid street in gaza city . israel has denied involvement in the deaths , saying palestinians have died in crushes , been run over by trucks and been shot by armed palestinians , and that when israeli troops have opened fire it has been at people they have deemed " suspects ". israel has banned unrwa from delivering aid to northern gaza over allegations it made that some unrwa staff took part in the 7 october hamas attack . cogat said israel would work with organisations that " are not involved in terror ". the crisis group think tank has described israel ' s approach to aid distribution as a " fiasco ", accusing it of " failing to coordinate military with humanitarian action ". it also said israel was attempting to work around the international aid system and instead use aid convoys as a way of trying to build a network of players to administer gaza after the war . " it directs aid to big families who agree to embrace its agenda , while targeting those who refuse ," the think tank said . the un ' s most senior human rights official , volker tã¼rk , said in a bbc interview recently that israel bore significant blame , and that there was a " plausible " case that israel was using starvation as a weapon of war in gaza . mr tã¼rk , who is the un high commissioner for human rights , said that if intent was proven , that would amount to a war crime . israel ' s economy minister nir barkat dismissed mr tã¼rk ' s warnings as " total nonsense - a totally irresponsible thing to say ". ashdod port , 32km ( 20 miles ) north of gaza , is one of israel ' s three main cargo ports and can handle more than 1 . 5 million containers a year . however , there have been no reports of aid shipments for gaza being received at ashdod . on wednesday israel ' s channel 12 reported that no preparations had been made to open ashdod to humanitarian shipments . because not enough aid has been getting into gaza by land , countries have been trying alternative routes via the skies and sea - but these too have been beset by problems . of the two schemes to get food and other aid into gaza by sea , only one has begun operation and it has now been paused after the israeli military attacked wck , the aid agency that was unloading and distributing the aid from a jetty it had constructed from rubble . last month , the first vessel to reach gaza under the scheme arrived from cyprus - the nearest eu country to gaza - towing a barge carrying about 200 tonnes of food provided by wck . by late march , wck boss josã © andrã © s said that 67 wck kitchens were operating in gaza , feeding 350 , 000 people a day . meanwhile , a separate us military plan is in train , with a us navy ship on its way carrying materials to build a floating dock and pier , to enable supplies on far larger cargo ships to get ashore . according to the us defence department , it will mean two million meals a day could enter gaza . but it is not expected to be ready for months . the us , jordan , egypt , france , the netherlands and belgium are among the countries to have dropped aid into gaza , but aid groups say the technique is a last resort that can ' t on its own meet the need . at least 20 palestinians are reported to have been killed during air drops - five when a parachute on an aid package failed to open and the crate fell on people waiting below , and the others when aid packages fell in the sea and desperate people drowned while trying to retrieve them . air forces such as the uk ' s raf normally drop aid at an altitude as low as 400ft ( 120m ), but the israelis have stipulated they must do so no lower than 2 , 000ft ( 610m ). that means the parachutes have a long time to get blown off course by the wind and is why some airdrops in recent weeks have landed in the sea . a c - 130 transport plane can carry 21 tons of aid - about the same quantity as can be carried by a single truck . there is also no way of organising the distribution on the ground . the first aid drop by the us on 3 march , carried out jointly with jordan , contained enough food for more than 38 , 000 meals . on 11 april , us central command , or centcom , said the us had dropped 855 tons of humanitarian assistance in total .