hamas has pushed back after being criticised by us secretary of state antony blinken for not yet accepting a ceasefire proposal , saying it had shown " positivity " towards the negotiations . the group said it had " dealt positively ... with the latest proposal and all proposals to reach a ceasefire agreement ". it said , in contrast , " while blinken continues to talk about ' israel ’ s ' approval of the latest proposal , we have not heard any israeli official voicing approval ". mr blinken has repeatedly said that israel has accepted a ceasefire proposal outlined by president biden on 31 may . israel ' s government has not officially said so , though an israeli plan formed the basis for mr biden ' s declaration . speaking in qatar on wednesday , mr blinken expressed frustration with hamas ' s response to the israeli ceasefire proposal , which the group delivered on tuesday . the details of the response have not been made public , though mr blinken said hamas had proposed changes , some of which , he said , were unworkable ." at some point in a negotiation – and this has gone back and forth for a long time – you get to a point where if one side continues to change its demands , including making demands and insisting on changes for things that it already accepted , you have to question whether they ’ re proceeding in good faith or not ." but in a series of statements on wednesday night , hamas questioned whether israel had actually accepted either the plan or a un security council resolution endorsing it ." the world did not hear any welcome or approval from [ israeli prime minister benjamin ] netanyahu " and his government to the resolution , it said . " rather they continued to emphasise the rejection of any permanent ceasefire , in clear contradiction with the security council resolution and president biden ’ s initiative ." hamas said that on the other hand , it had " clearly expressed its positive position on what was included in us president joe biden ’ s speech " and on " what was included " in the resolution . it also said it had confirmed its " readiness to co - operate " with the mediators involved in the ceasefire negotiations . after a meeting with mr netanyahu in jerusalem on monday , mr blinken said the prime minister had " reaffirmed his commitment " to the ceasefire proposal . mr netanyahu has not publicly endorsed the plan , although the war cabinet which he leads authorised the proposal which was delivered to hamas on 27 may . that proposal - reportedly lengthier than the summary presented by mr biden - has not been made public and it is unclear whether it varies from what the president conveyed in his televised statement at the end of last month . one of the main sticking points between the two sides appears to be their visions for ending the war . reports say hamas is insisting first on written guarantees that israel will end the war before it will sign up to the plan . mr netanyahu has said the war will not end until hamas ' s " governing and military capabilities " have been destroyed and the hostages returned . the war began after hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 251 others back to gaza as hostages . the hamas - run health ministry says more than 37 , 000 people have been killed in israel ' s offensive since then .