the family of a man killed in an israeli strike in gaza say they are " utterly heartbroken ". james kirby , 47 , from bristol , was one of three british aid workers killed in the attack on monday . in total , seven world central kitchen ( wck ) workers died . john chapman , 57 and james henderson , 33 , were also from the uk . mr kirby ' s family said he , alongside the other individuals , " will be remembered as a hero ". " james lost his life trying to save others , he will never know what a void he has left , our family will never be the same ," they added . the british nationals , all part of wck ' s security team , were travelling with a convoy that had just unloaded more than 100 tonnes of much - needed food aid brought from overseas , according to the charity . all three vehicles in the convoy were hit by an israeli air strike while leaving a warehouse in deir al - balah , south of gaza city . " james understood the dangers of venturing into gaza , drawing from his experiences in the british armed forces , where he bravely served tours in bosnia and afghanistan ," explained his family . " despite the risks , his compassionate nature drove him to offer assistance to those in dire need ." mr kirby ' s cousin , adam mcguire , said his death was an " absolute tragedy ". " james wasn ' t one of those people that would just sit back ," said mr mcguire . " he knew that if he didn ' t go then someone else would go , and that would probably play on his mind . " he knew the dangers but he was selfless in that regard , and he just wanted to help people ." another cousin , amy roxburgh - barry said : " the fact that he went over there to support and give aid ... for him to actually lose his life in that situation is just heart - breaking . " he lost his life doing that , not having weapons and not being armed . he should have been protected ." " he has died a hero . they all have ," she added . " a genuine gentleman , james was always willing to lend a helping hand to anyone , even in the face of senseless violence ," added his family , who also have links to somerset . " we are so incredibly proud of who james was and what he achieved . " never stop caring and trying to help people , love will eventually overcome hate ." as well as the three britons , australian national lalzawmi frankcom , polish national damian sobol , palestinian saifeddin issam ayad abutahas and us - canadian citizen jacob flickinger , were also killed in the strike . prime minister rishi sunak said the deaths " appalled " him . israel said the strike was " unintended ". follow bbc bristol on facebook , x and instagram . send your story ideas to us on email or via whatsapp on 0800 313 4630 .