india has urged citizens working in israel to " relocate to safe areas " after an indian national was reportedly killed near the border with lebanon . two indian citizens were also seriously injured when an anti - tank missile hit a plantation in margaliot on monday . the israeli embassy in delhi accused the lebanese armed group hezbollah of being behind the attack . the indian embassy in israel has since advised all its nationals to stay away from the border . in a post on x ( formerly twitter ), the embassy added that it was in contact with israeli authorities to " ensure the safety of all our nationals ". however , it did not directly address the anti - tank missile attack , nor how many people had died or been injured . media reports in both india and israel say the man was an indian national , while the israeli embassy in delhi has also expressed grief over the death of the man . according to reports , the man had only moved to israel two months ago to work on a farm . the israel defense forces ( idf ) had earlier said it responded by hitting the site in lebanon from where the missile was launched . tens of thousands of people living in communities near the border with lebanon have been evacuated by israeli authorities following an escalation in hostilities with hezbollah on 8 october , the day after hamas ' s attacks on southern israel triggered the war in the gaza strip . hezbollah - an iran - backed shia islamist group proscribed as a terrorist organisation by the uk , us and others - is the largest military force in lebanon . it says it is attacking israel in support of palestinians in gaza . the israeli military has carried out air and artillery strikes in response , fuelling fears of a major confrontation . despite these fears , and the ongoing war between israel and hamas in the gaza strip , thousands of indian job seekers have applied to work in israel . israeli businesses have been actively recruiting , hoping to fill the gaps left by some 80 , 000 palestinians barred from working in israel since the start of the war between israel and hamas in the gaza strip . in india , unemployment remains high , with 42 % of graduates under 25 years old having no jobs , as shown in the latest state of working india report by azim premji university . " this group has aspirations for higher incomes , and they don ' t want to do insecure gig work . this group is trading that extreme risk [ of going to israel ] for higher incomes and some level of reduced precarity ," explained rosa abraham , a labour economist with azim premji university .