tynwald members have unanimously called for a " sustainable , permanent ceasefire " in gaza , condemning the killing of civilians on both sides of the conflict . manx politicians also agreed they " unreservedly condemned the terrorist attacks " on israel by hamas on 7 october , which led to the israeli military ' s campaign in the region . politicians backed the motion by michelle haywood mhk , after it was amended by the chief minister alfred cannan . calling on members to support the move , ms haywood said the island ' s parliament " may not have a loud voice on the international stage but we do have a voice , and it matters that we speak out ". in march , about 60 people joined a demonstration outside the tynwald buildings in douglas to call for peace . more than 33 , 800 people have been killed in gaza during israel ' s military campaign , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . the situation was described as both " complex " and " heart - breaking " during the debate , with tim glover mhk urging the parliament to " speak as a united tynwald in sending this message out ". the wording of the motion underwent a number of changes by mr cannan which included the description of the early - october attacks as " terrorist " and the condemnation of the killing of innocent civilians on both sides of the conflict . he told the court the amendment would " better reflect the position of israel acting under law to conduct military operation and warfare against a terrorist entity " after consulting with the uk government ' s foreign , commonwealth & development office . supporting the amendments , members called on " israel to abide by international law in the conduct of its military operations and to respect the basic human rights of palestinian civilians " and for the international community " do everything within its power to create safe and meaningful aid corridors into the gaza strip and enable safe passage out of the region ". manx politicians also confirmed they stood " in solidarity with the palestinian and israeli communities of the isle of man affected by the conflict ". why not follow bbc isle of man on facebook and x ? you can also send story ideas to isleofman @ bbc . co . uk