us officials have again raised concerns with their israeli counterparts about israel ' s plans for military operations in the southern gaza city of rafah . the white house said representatives of israel ' s prime minister had agreed " to take these concerns into account ". the us has repeatedly urged israel not to launch a major offensive in rafah to avoid more civilian casualties in gaza . separately , the us vetoed a un resolution to grant full member status to a state of palestine . in another development , us defence secretary lloyd austin spoke to israeli defence minister yoav gallant to " discuss regional threats and iran ' s destabilising actions in the middle east ". they also discussed " the importance of increasing and sustaining the flow of humanitarian aid to gazan civilians , including via the new route from ashdod port in israel ". the israeli military says it has struck dozens of targets in gaza , a day after widespread israeli bombing of the central part of the strip as well as gaza city in the north . qatar - which has played a major mediating role in truce talks - said earlier that ceasefire negotiations had stalled . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has consistently vowed to carry out an offensive in rafah - where more than a million palestinians are sheltering - as a next step in military actions against hamas . the us , israel ' s closest ally , has been pressing israel not to conduct a broad offensive in rafah but to instead take a more targeted approach . the war in gaza erupted when hamas - led gunmen carried out an unprecedented attack on southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people , mainly civilians , and taking 253 others back to gaza as hostages . at least 33 , 970 people have been killed in gaza since then , the majority of them women and children , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry , during israel ' s military campaign to destroy hamas and release hostages . a white house readout of thursday ' s meeting said rafah was the focus of discussions along with iran ' s unprecedented drone and missile strike on israel last week . " the two sides agreed on the shared objective to see hamas defeated in rafah . us participants expressed concerns with various courses of action in rafah ," the statement said . it said they had agreed to have follow - up discussions between experts and would meet again soon . according to us news site axios , us officials have " flatly denied " reports that the biden administration gave a " green light for an operation in rafah " if israel declined to strike iran in retaliation for last weekend ' s attack on its territory . israel did not immediately comment on thursday ' s meeting , which followed similar talks on 1 april . at the time , us officials reportedly told the israelis their planning for rafah was insufficient for evacuating and protecting palestinian civilians sheltering there after being forced to flee their homes . the resolution to grant full un member status to a state of palestine was vetoed by the us at a meeting of the security council . the palestinian authority has had observer status since 2012 but cannot vote in proceedings . twelve members voted in favour of the resolution - including france , japan and south korea - while the us was the lone member voting against , with two abstentions , by the uk and switzerland . it was a unilateral action the us had been keen to avoid if it possibly could , with reports of intense behind - the - scenes lobbying in advance of the vote in the hope of winning over some other security council members to its side . explaining his country ' s veto , the us deputy ambassador , robert wood , insisted washington continued to strongly support a two - state solution , but that any change in status for a state of palestine at the un should only come as part of a negotiated settlement with israel . the palestinian envoy to the un , riyad mansour , said his people had a " natural right " to self - determination . " the people of palestine will not disappear ," he added . " we will not disappear . the people of palestine will not be buried . they are a historical fact . they are a history that cannot be erased no matter the great power , no matter the tyranny ." israel ' s envoy to the un , gilad erdan , thanked the us for " standing up for truth and morality in the face of hypocrisy and politics " and accused other countries who had backed the resolution of deciding to " reward palestinian terror with palestinian state ". according to russia ' s envoy , vassily nebenzya , the us had " demonstrated their true attitude towards the palestinians ". to washington , they don ' t deserve to have their own state ," he added . " they are only an obstacle to the realization of israel ' s interests ." the uk ' s envoy , barbara woodward , said : " we believe that such recognition of palestinian statehood should not come at the start of a new process , but it doesn ' t have to be at the very end of the process . we must start with fixing the immediate crisis in gaza ."