us speaker of the house mike johnson will invite israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu to address congress . mr johnson , who leads the republican - controlled house , told cnbc they are " trying to work out schedules ". the news comes as the relationship between israeli leaders and leading us democrats has grown tense . top senate democrat chuck schumer has called for israeli voters to replace mr netanyahu , who he has deemed a barrier to peace talks in gaza . " i would love to have him come in and address a joint session of congress ," mr johnson told the network on thursday . " we ' ll certainly extend that invitation ." he added that he had personally been invited to address israeli lawmakers in the knesset , calling it a " great honour ". mr schumer , who is jewish and a supporter of israel , delivered a 40 - minute speech on the senate floor last week calling for israel to hold new elections to replace mr netanyahu . he criticised mr netanyahu and his conservative government for his handling of the war in gaza , saying he " has lost his way " and argued that he stands in the way of peace between israelis and palestinians . mr johnson on thursday criticised him for those remarks . " to suggest to our strongest ally in the middle east , the only stable democracy , that he knows better how to run their democracy is just patently absurd ," he said . in response to mr johnson , mr schumer ' s office released a statement saying he did not object to an address by mr netanyahu . " israel has no stronger ally than the united states and our relationship transcends any one president or any one prime minister ," mr schumer said . " i will always welcome the opportunity for the prime minister of israel to speak to congress in a bipartisan way ." mr johnson ' s comments on the invitation come a day after mr netanyahu delivered remarks behind closed doors to republicans in the senate . mr schumer turned down a request from mr netanyahu to speak to senate democrats , saying any address should be done in a bipartisan fashion . mr netanyahu last spoke to the us congress in 2015 , when both chambers were controlled by republicans . he used the opportunity to criticise then president barack obama , a democrat , for pursuing a deal with us allies and iran to curtail that country ' s nuclear programme . mr netanyahu ' s possible address also comes as an aid bill for israel appears to have stalled in congress and as israel prepares for an operation in rafah , a city in southern gaza that palestinian refugees have fled to . an israeli delegation is due to visit washington to discuss the planned assault next week , according to us officials . they were invited by president joe biden , who has attempted to discourage israel from going through with the operation , in a recent call with mr netanyahu . mr biden , who is running for re - election in november , has come under political pressure from his party ' s left wing to do more to convince israel to limit its war in gaza , which began when hamas gunmen stormed into southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 others hostage . more than 31 , 000 palestinians have been killed since the war started , according to the hamas - led health ministry in gaza . the death toll has drawn international concern and condemnation . correction 25th april : this article previously stated that 31 , 000 palestinian civilians have died since the start of the war and has been amended to make clear that this is the overall palestinian death toll . sign up for our morning newsletter and get bbc news in your inbox .