israel ' s military said on sunday that it was reducing its numbers of soldiers from southern gaza , leaving just one brigade in the area . the military stressed a " significant force " would remain in gaza . " this is another stage in the war effort ", israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesman lt col peter lerner told the bbc . the pull - out is being interpreted as tactical , rather than a sign the war may be moving closer to its end . also on sunday , israel and hamas said they had both sent delegations to cairo to join fresh ceasefire negotiations . it is six months to the day since hamas attacked southern israeli border communities on 7 october , killing 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostage . israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are dead . more than 33 , 000 gazans have been killed in israel ' s offensive in gaza since then , the hamas - run health ministry says , the majority of them civilians . gaza is on the brink of famine , with oxfam reporting that 300 , 000 people trapped in the north have lived since january on an average of 245 calories a day . lt col lerner said troops would rotate out because the military had completed its mission in khan younis . khan younis has been under israeli bombardment for months , and the city and surrounding area are largely destroyed . lt col lerner said : " the war is not over . war can only be over when they [ hostages ] come home and when hamas is gone ." " it is a decline in the forces but there are more operations that need to be conducted . rafah is clearly a stronghold . we need to dismantle hamas ' capabilities wherever they are ." us national security spokesman john kirby said it appeared to be a " rest and refit " and " not necessarily ... indicative of some coming new operation for these troops ". but later israeli defence minister yoav gallant said the troops were leaving to " prepare for their follow - up missions ". he said their achievements in khan younis were " extremely impressive ", adding that hamas had ceased to function as a military organisation throughout gaza . israel has long warned of a planned ground offensive in the southern city of rafah , where more than a million displaced palestinians are sheltering . some of the displaced expressed hope that they would soon be able to return to what remains of their homes . muhammad al - mughrabi , 32 , from gaza city , currently living with his family in rafah , told bbc news he was " filled with hope as my neighbour in a tent from khan younis was able to return home ". " despite knowing that my house was completely destroyed , i dream daily of returning to my hometown . i will set up a tent over the rubble of my house and live there with dignity , rather than being compelled to reside in the courtyard of a hospital ," he said . international pressure for a ceasefire is mounting , and the us - israel ' s closest and most powerful ally - warned earlier this week that its ongoing support for the gaza war is dependent on " specific , concrete steps " to boost aid and prevent civilian deaths . marking six months of the war , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said israel was " one step away from victory " but insisted there would be no ceasefire without the release of israeli hostages . " the achievements of the war are considerable : we have eliminated 19 of hamas ' s 24 battalions , including senior commanders ," he said . tens of thousands of israelis rallied against mr netanyahu on saturday , demanding a deal to free the hostages held in gaza . anti - government protesters were joined by hostages ' families . the rallies in tel aviv and other cities came hours after the israel defense forces ( idf ) recovered the body of hostage elad katzir . organisers said the protest in tel aviv had drawn 100 , 000 people , while other counts put attendance at around 45 , 000 . more demonstrations took place on sunday evening , with thousands protesting in jerusalem .