the devastated landscape of their city feels unreal to the thousands of palestinians who have been returning to khan younis in gaza . through the rubble of the streets , they have been filing back on bicycles , donkey carts and by foot , looking for their homes or what trace is left of them . " i am going to my house , even though i know that it is destroyed . i am going to remove the rubble to get a shirt out ," mohammed abou diab said . israel ' s military pulled troops out of southern gaza , leaving just one brigade in the area . the smell of death is in the air , residents say , with bodies still lying beneath the ruins . the scale of the devastation has shocked them . " the destruction is huge . it all needs to be rebuilt . it ' s not suitable for human beings to live in - not even for animals ," abu saif abu mustafa told the bbc . " it ' s as if an earthquake hit the city ," rashad khamis al - najjar from the wider khan younis region said as he surveyed the scene . " the houses are not liveable , the mosques are not suitable for worship , and the roads and the infrastructure , even the electricity , have all been completely destroyed ." another resident had a similar sense of horror at what he saw on his return : " we see total destruction everywhere as if it were an earthquake or a natural catastrophe . " the houses that haven ' t been destroyed are burned or looted by thieves . we are dying slowly . there are no homes to live in and we live like the dead ." gaza ' s second city was the focus of a sustained onslaught by the israeli army from december , believing that hamas leaders and fighters had been driven there from the north and established a new stronghold in tunnels and hospitals . neighbourhood by neighbourhood , israel ordered palestinians to leave . the israeli army said it was doing everything it could to protect civilians . a city of some 400 , 000 people was deserted bit by bit as israeli forces mounted ferocious bombardments . almost from the moment that israel announced that its mission in khan younis was completed and its troops had been pulled out , palestinians began to move from their overcrowded shelters further south towards their city . but many have found that with their homes rendered unliveable , they have little option but to try to gather what possessions are left and return to their temporary shelters . one woman , nour ayyash , said she couldn ' t reach her apartment because the stairs were gone . her brother managed to climb up and retrieve some clothes for her children . another returning resident told the bbc : " we came to get some of our things , we wanted to see if anything was left of our homes and to take any of our belongings , like clothes for example ." but some would rather stay , even if there is nothing left of what was once their home . mohammed abu rizzeq lost more than his house , his wife was killed in an israeli bombardment after they were displaced . but he told the bbc : " our biggest request is that israel withdraw from our land - there ' s been enough killing and destruction . it ' s better for us to have a tent on the rubble of our homes than being displaced and in exile ." israel ' s military stressed a " significant force " would remain in gaza after some troops left southern areas on sunday . the pull - out is being interpreted as tactical , rather than a sign the war may be moving closer to its end . on monday israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said israel had set a date for a planned military operation in the southern city of rafah , where many of those returning to khan younis had been sheltering . he gave no details . more than a million palestinians have sought shelter in rafah after fleeing fighting in other areas - although that city too has been hit by israeli air strikes . mr netanyahu said israel wanted complete victory over hamas . " this victory requires entry into rafah and the elimination of the terrorist battalions there . it will happen - there is a date ." the us has said it won ' t support a large - scale offensive in rafah without a credible plan to protect civilians . ceasefire talks are continuing , with qatar ' s foreign ministry telling the bbc it was cautiously optimistic about a new proposal . hamas - which says it wants a permanent end to the war , full withdrawal of israeli forces from gaza and an influx of aid as part of any deal - has said that it is studying the latest proposal , without indicating whether its leadership now feels ready to make concessions on its demands . the same is true on the israeli side . israel says it wants hostages being held by hamas to be freed in return for a temporary pause in fighting . but defence minister yoav gallant has said he believes this is an opportune moment to do a deal with hamas . meanwhile the leaders of france , egypt and jordan jointly called for an immediate ceasefire in gaza . emmanuel macron , abdul fattah al - sisi and king abdullah also warned against an israeli offensive in rafah , which they said would " only bring more death and suffering ". more than 33 , 000 gazans have been killed in israel ' s offensive in gaza , the hamas - run health ministry says , the majority of them civilians . the war was sparked when hamas attacked southern israeli border communities on 7 october , killing 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostage . israel says that of 130 hostages still in gaza , at least 34 are thought to be dead .