seven journalists , including a freelancer working for the bbc , have been injured in an israeli air strike in the courtyard of a hospital in gaza . four members of the islamic jihad ( ij ) militant group were killed in the attack , the bbc understands . the israeli military said it struck an ij command centre in the grounds of the al - aqsa hospital in deir al - balah . hamas and medical staff deny israeli accusations that militants use hospitals as bases . islamic jihad , an ally of hamas , has not commented . al - aqsa is the last hospital functioning in the central gaza strip . the journalists were among hundreds who are sheltering in makeshift tents in the grounds of the hospital . most of the journalists camped inside the hospital grounds are from northern gaza . they continue to work under extremely tough conditions , with little food , water or electricity , and the ever - present threat of israeli strikes . many work by selling photos documenting life in and around the hospital , while also looking after their young families living with them inside the tents . the tent closest to the explosion belonged to the turkish news agency anadolu . " they hit the tent without any warning , we were staying in the tent as a group of journalists peacefully with no terrorists among us ," ali hamad , a photographer , told reuters news agency . " we were preparing our cameras and all of a sudden the tent was hit , everything went dark with debris and rocks flying above our heads and there were flames ." saeed jaras , a freelance photographer , said : " we are unarmed journalists and we have nothing to do with anything ." the chief of the world health organization ( who ) said that four people were killed and 17 injured in the airstrike . a who team at the hospital were all accounted for , tedros adhanom ghebreyesus wrote on social media . " we again call for protection of patients , health personnel and humanitarian missions . the ongoing attacks and militarisation of hospitals must stop . international humanitarian law must be respected ," he added . the israeli military said " the command centre and terrorists were struck precisely , intended on minimising harm to uninvolved civilians in the area of the hospital ". israeli strikes killed 77 people in gaza in the past 24 hours , the hamas - run health ministry said on sunday . it reported that nine more people died in an israeli strike in bani suhaila near the city of khan younis . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said on sunday that an anticipated large - scale ground offensive in rafah on the egypt border would go ahead , despite the united states saying it would not support the operation . mr netanyahu told a news conference that the offensive in rafah , where there are more than a million displaced people , " is essential to victory ". meanwhile , thousands of israeli protestors gathered in jerusalem for the largest anti - government demonstration since the start of the gaza conflict . mr netanyahu has faced widespread criticism for the security failure that led to hamas ' s unprecedented attack on 7 october in southern israel , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and some 253 taken hostage . of those taken , about 130 remain unaccounted for , at least 34 of whom are presumed dead . families of those held captive in gaza have told their supporters " take to the streets " to protest against the israeli government ' s handling of their release . the words mark a significant escalation in some of the hostages ' relatives rhetoric against the government . since israel launched its retaliatory operation , saying it was aimed at destroying hamas , a total of 32 , 782 palestinians have been killed and 75 , 298 injured , according to the hamas - run health ministry . earlier this month , us defence secretary lloyd austin said that , of those killed , more than 25 , 000 were women and children .