medical workers in israel have told the bbc that palestinian detainees from gaza are routinely kept shackled to hospital beds , blindfolded , sometimes naked , and forced to wear nappies – a practice one medic said amounted to “ torture ”. a whistle - blower detailed how procedures in one military hospital were “ routinely ” carried out without painkillers , causing “ an unacceptable amount of pain ” to detainees . another whistle - blower said painkillers were used “ selectively ” and “ in a very limited way ” during an invasive medical procedure on a gazan detainee in a public hospital . he also said critically ill patients being held in makeshift military facilities were being denied proper treatment because of a reluctance by public hospitals to transfer and treat them . one detainee , taken from gaza for questioning by the israeli army and later released , told the bbc his leg had to be amputated because he was denied treatment for an infected wound . a senior doctor working inside the military hospital at the centre of the allegations denied that any amputations were the direct result of conditions there , but described the shackles and other restraints used by guards as “ dehumanisation ”. the israeli army said detainees at the facility were treated “ appropriately and carefully ”. the two whistle - blowers the bbc spoke to were both in positions to assess the medical treatment of detainees . both asked to remain anonymous because of the sensitivity of the issue among their colleagues . their accounts are supported by a report , published in february by physicians for human rights in israel , which said that israel ’ s civilian and military prisons had become “ an apparatus of retribution and revenge ” and that detainees ’ human rights were being violated - in particular their right to health . concerns over the treatment of sick and injured detainees have centred on a military field hospital , at the sde teiman military base in southern israel . the field hospital was set up by israel ’ s health ministry after the hamas attacks specifically to treat gazan detainees , after some public hospitals and staff expressed a reluctance to treat fighters captured on the day of the hamas attacks . since then , israeli forces have rounded up large numbers of people from gaza and taken them to bases like sde teiman for interrogation . those suspected of fighting for hamas are sent to israeli detention centres ; many others are released back to gaza without charge . the army does not publish details of the detainees it is holding . patients at the sde teiman hospital are kept blindfolded and permanently shackled to their beds by all four limbs , according to several medics responsible for treating patients there . they are also made to wear nappies , rather than use a toilet . israel ’ s army said in response that handcuffing of detainees in the sde teiman hospital was “ examined individually and daily , and carried out in cases where the security risk requires it ”. it said that nappies [ diapers ] were used “ only for detainees who have undergone medical procedures for which their movement is limited ”. but witnesses , including the facility ’ s senior anaesthiologist , yoel donchin , say both the use of nappies and handcuffs are universal in the hospital ward .“ the army create the patient to be 100 % dependent , like a baby ,” he said . “ you are cuffed , you are with diapers , you need water , you need everything – it ’ s dehumanisation ”. dr donchin said there was no individual assessment of the need for restraints , and that even those patients who were unable to walk – for example , those with leg amputations – were handcuffed to the bed . he described the practice as “ stupid ”. two witnesses at the facility in the early weeks of the gaza war told us that patients there were kept naked under the blankets . one doctor with knowledge of conditions there said prolonged cuffing to beds would cause “ huge suffering , horrible suffering ”, describing it as “ torture ” and saying patients would start to feel pain after a few hours . others have spoken of the risk of long - term nerve - damage . footage of gazan detainees released after interrogation shows injuries and scarring around their wrists and legs . last month , israel ’ s daily haaretz newspaper published allegations made by a doctor at the sde teiman site that leg amputations had been carried out on two prisoners , because of cuffing injuries . the allegations were made , the paper said , in a private letter sent by the doctor to government ministers and the attorney - general , in which such amputations were described as “ unfortunately a routine event ”. the bbc has not been able to independently verify this allegation . dr donchin said that amputations were not the direct result of cuffing and had involved other factors – such as infection , diabetes or problems with blood vessels . israeli medical guidelines stipulate that no patient should be restrained unless there is a specific security reason for doing so , and that the minimum level of restraint should be used . the head of the country ’ s medical ethics board , yossi walfisch , after a visit to the site , said all patients had a right to be treated without being handcuffed , but that the safety of staff prevailed over other ethical considerations .“ terrorists are given proper medical treatment ,” he said in a published letter , “ with the aim of keeping restraints to a minimum and while maintaining the safety of the treating staff .” many gazans detained by israel ’ s army are released without charge after interrogation . dr donchin said complaints from medical staff at the sde teiman military hospital had led to changes , including a shift to looser handcuffs . he said he insisted on guards removing restraints before any surgical procedure .“ it ’ s not pleasant to work there ,” he said . “ i know it ’ s against the ethical code to treat someone cuffed in the bed . but what ’ s the alternative ? is it better to let them die ? i don ’ t think so .” but reports suggest the attitudes of medical staff towards detainees vary widely , in both military and civilian hospitals . a whistle - blower who worked at the sde teiman field hospital back in october , shortly after the hamas attacks on israel , described cases of patients being given inadequate amounts of painkillers , including anaesthetic . he said a doctor once refused his request that an elderly patient be given painkillers while they were opening up a recent , infected amputation wound .“[ the patient ] started trembling from pain , and so i stop and say ‘ we can ’ t go on , you need to give him analgesia ’,” he said . the doctor told him it was too late to administer it . the witness said such procedures were “ routinely done without analgesia ” resulting in “ an unacceptable amount of pain ”. on another occasion , he was asked by a suspected hamas fighter to intercede with the surgical team to increase the levels of morphine and anaesthetic during repeated surgeries . the message was passed on , but the suspect again regained consciousness during the next operation and was in a lot of pain . the witness said both he and other colleagues felt there was a sense in which it had been a deliberate act of revenge . the army said in response to these allegations that violence against detainees was “ absolutely prohibited ”, and that it regularly briefed its forces on the conduct required of them . any concrete details of violence or humiliation would be examined , it said . a second whistle - blower said the situation at sde teiman was only part of the problem , which extended into public hospitals . the bbc is calling him “ yoni ” to protect his identity . in the days that followed the 7 october attacks , he said , hospitals in southern israel were faced with the challenge of treating both wounded fighters and wounded victims , often in the same emergency departments . hamas gunmen had just attacked israeli communities along the border fence with gaza , killing about 1 , 200 people and kidnapping some 250 others .“ the atmosphere was extremely emotional ,” yoni said . “ hospitals were completely overwhelmed , both psychologically and in terms of capacity .”“ there were instances where i heard staff discuss whether detainees from gaza should get painkillers . or ways to perform certain procedures that can turn the treatment into punishment .” conversations like this were not uncommon , he said , even if actual instances appeared very rare .“ i have knowledge of one case where painkillers were used selectively , in a very limited way , during a procedure ,” he told the bbc .“ the patient did not receive any explanation of what was going on . so , if you put together [ that ] someone is undergoing an invasive procedure , which involves even incisions , and doesn ’ t know about that , and is blindfolded , then the line between treatment and assault thins out .” we asked the health ministry to respond to these allegations , but they directed us to the idf . yoni also said that the sde teiman field hospital was not equipped to treat severely injured patients , but that some of those held there in the early months of the war had fresh gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen . he said at least one critically ill man was kept there because of a reluctance by public hospitals to accept his transfer for treatment , adding that doctors at the base were “ frustrated ” by the situation . sufian abu salah , a 43 - year - old taxi driver from khan youis , was one of dozens of men detained during raids by israel ' s army and taken to a military base for questioning . he said soldiers carried out severe beatings during the journey and also on arrival at the base , where he was denied treatment for a minor wound on his foot , which then became infected .“ my leg got infected and turned blue , and as soft as a sponge ,” he told the bbc . after a week , he said , the guards took him to hospital , beating him on his injured leg on the way . two operations to clean his wound did not work , he told the bbc .“ afterwards , they took me to a public hospital , where the doctor gave me two options : my leg or my life .” he chose his life . after they amputated his leg , he was sent back to the military base , and later released back to gaza . " this period was mental and physical torture ,” he said . “ i can ’ t describe it . i was detained with two legs and now i have only one . every now and then , i cry .” the idf did not respond to the specific allegations about sufian ’ s treatment , but said the claims of violence towards him during his arrest or detention “ were unknown and will be examined ”. in the days after the 7 october attack , israel ’ s health ministry issued a directive that all gazan detainees should be treated in military or prison hospitals , with the sde teiman field hospital created specifically to fill this role . the decision won the backing of many in israel ’ s medical establishment , with yossi walfisch , praising it as the solution to “ an ethical dilemma ”, which would remove responsibility for treating “ hamas terrorists ” from the public health system . others have called for the closure of sde teiman , describing the situation there as “ an unprecedented low point for the medical profession , and medical ethics .”“ my fear is that what we ’ re doing in sde teiman won ’ t allow a return to the way it was before ,” one doctor told the bbc . “ because things that looked unreasonable to us before , will look reasonable when this crisis is over .” yoel donchin , the anaesthesiologist , said medical staff at the field hospital sometimes gathered together to cry over the situation there .“ the moment our hospital closes ,” he said , “ we ’ ll celebrate .” additional reporting by : naomi scherbel - ball , gidi kleiman , aisha kherallah