world central kitchen is to resume distributing food in gaza , nearly a month after seven of its aid workers were killed in an israeli air strike . the aid organisation said it has 276 trucks with eight million meals ready to enter through the rafah crossing . " ultimately , we decided we must keep feeding ," the charity said on sunday . earlier this month , the charity said a convoy leaving a warehouse was attacked by israel killing seven and sparking an international outcry . the israel defense forces admitted " grave mistakes " led to the fatal strike against the workers and dismissed two senior officers over the incident . in a statement on sunday , wck ceo erin gore said : " the humanitarian situation in gaza remains dire . " we are restarting our operation with the same energy , dignity , and focus on feeding as many people as possible ." the charity said it will also send trucks from jordan and use the ashdod port , one of israel ' s three main cargo ports , as well as build a third high production kitchen in gaza . speaking on the fatal airstrike , the charity said it was continuing to call for an impartial and international investigation into the deaths of the aid workers , which included three britons , a palestinian , australian , pole and us - canadian citizen . " while we have no concrete assurances , we continue to seek answers and advocate for change with the goal of better protecting wck and all ngo workers serving selflessly in the worst humanitarian conditions ," ms gore said . wck is one of the main suppliers of desperately - needed aid into gaza and says it has supplied more than 43 million meals in gaza since the war started in october . talking about the decision to resume operations , ms gore added : " we decided that we must keep feeding , continuing our mission of showing up to provide food to people during the toughest of times ." in the space of four minutes on 1 april , the seven aid workers were killed when three missiles destroyed their cars one by one as they engaged in humanitarian work . the charity ' s team had been authorised by the israeli military to help transfer aid supplies from the coast to a warehouse . the idf said a series of mistakes and miscommunications resulted in them being mistaken for hamas operatives and targeted . israel ' s military said a " number of armed gunmen " were in the vicinity of the convoy , but drone operators wrongly tracked cars carrying aid workers . the army apologised after admitting its soldiers did not follow protocols and were not given crucial information about the pre - approved aid mission . the wck announcement comes as israeli ' s military said the amount of aid going into gaza will be ramped up in the coming days to help . spokesperson rear adm daniel hagari said in a statement : " food , water , medical supplies , shelter equipment and other aid - more of it is going into gaza than ever before ." israel is also working with us central command to construct a " temporary maritime pier ," which will allow ship - to - shore distribution , he added . the un has warned that famine in the gaza strip is " almost inevitable " and children are starving to death . the current war began when hamas attacked israeli communities near gaza , killing about 1 , 200 people , mainly civilians , and taking about 250 hostages . israel ' s subsequent campaign of aerial bombardment and ground operations in gaza has killed 34 , 454 people , mostly civilians , according to the hamas - run health ministry there .