the united nations has said that an indian staff member ' s death this week in gaza was caused by an israeli tank attack on his vehicle . col waibhav kale , a former indian army officer , died on monday after a un vehicle was struck near the city of rafah . another staffer was injured . col kale ' s death is the first of an international un worker in gaza since the start of the conflict . the israel defense forces ( idf ) has said the incident is under review . on wednesday , un deputy spokesperson farhan haq said the organisation had " no doubt " that shots from an israeli tank hit the back of the car , which was clearly marked as a un vehicle . mr haq said the agency wanted to know the circumstances under which the attack took place and was in discussion with israeli authorities . he added that the un department of safety and security ( undss ), which employed the two staffers , had set up a fact - finding panel to look into the incident . the un had earlier said the workers were travelling to the european hospital near rafah when their vehicle was struck . footage posted on social media and verified by the bbc showed a marked un vehicle with multiple bullet holes outside the hospital . the israeli military said an initial inquiry indicated the vehicle was struck in an active combat zone and it had not been made aware of its route . but the un said the vehicle was clearly marked and its planned movements had been announced in advance to israeli authorities . col kale , 46 , was from the western indian state of maharashtra and had joined the undss in gaza weeks before the attack . this was his first deployment in the region . " he told me that he had joined the un because it seemed like the best way to make a difference ," gilles michaud , the under - secretary - general for safety and security , said in a statement . " he signed up to work in support of people who desperately need help ; in the most dangerous place , at a time of unimaginable crisis . this speaks volumes about his character ," he said . kale had spent 22 years in the indian army before he opted for an early retirement ; he later worked in a private firm , his family told bbc marathi . but unhappy with a desk job , he joined the undss in april . " waibhav kale , an indian , had nothing to do with hamas or israel or this war . but he has sacrificed his life for peace . now , peace must be restored in gaza ," his cousin chinmay kale told local media . india ' s mission to the un in new york said its " deepest condolences are with the family " of col kale . un secretary - general antónio guterres said on monday that he was " deeply saddened " to learn of the worker ' s death and sent his condolences to their family , mr farhan haq said in a statement . in a separate statement , mr guterres said more than 190 un staff had been killed in gaza since the war began . apart from col kale , six international aid workers and a palestinian colleague from the international food charity world central kitchen were killed in an israeli strike at the start of april . their deaths sparked an international outcry and the idf sacked two senior officers over the incident which it described as a " grave accident ". israel launched a military campaign in gaza with the stated aim of destroying hamas - which controls gaza - in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage . more than 35 , 090 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . additional reporting by malu cursino in london