iran ' s revolutionary guards say seven officers have been killed in an israeli strike on the iranian consulate building in syria ' s capital , damascus . brig - gen mohammad reza zahedi , a senior commander of the elite quds force , and brig - gen mohammad hadi haji - rahimi , his deputy , were named among the dead . iran and syria ' s governments condemned the attack , which destroyed a building next door to the iranian embassy . the israeli military said it did not comment on foreign media reports . however , it has acknowledged carrying out hundreds of strikes in recent years on targets in syria that it says are linked to iran and allied armed groups which are armed , funded and trained by the revolutionary guards . the israeli strikes have reportedly been stepped up since the start of the war in gaza in october last year , in response to cross - border attacks on northern israel by hezbollah and other iran - backed groups in lebanon and syria . but monday ' s attack will be seen as a serious escalation . the israelis appear to be testing the resolve of the iranians and their allies and signalling that they are serious about increasing pressure on their enemies . the israelis are looking at the fact that both iran and hezbollah have not been pushing as hard as some might expect . now they will see if iran and hezbollah are going to push back . there will be a response , but it may not be the one people expect . rather than missiles , it may be some sort of cyber - attack . syria ' s defence ministry said israeli aircraft targeted the iranian consulate building , which was on a highway in the western mezzeh district of damascus , from the direction of the occupied golan heights at about 17 : 00 local time ( 14 : 00 gmt ) on monday . syrian air defences shot down some of the missiles they launched , but others made it through and " destroyed the entire building , killing and injuring everyone inside ", the ministry added . the ministry said work was under way to recover the bodies and rescue the wounded from beneath the rubble , without saying how many casualties there were or naming any of them . photos and videos from the scene showed smoke and dust rising from the remains of the collapsed multi - storey building . the iranian embassy next door did not appear to have sustained any significant damage . the iranian ambassador , hossein akbari , said israeli f - 35 fighter jets " brutally targeted my place of residence and the consular section of the embassy , along with iran ' s military attaches ". he told iranian state tv that between five and seven people were killed , including some diplomats . later , the revolutionary guards put out a statement saying that seven of its officers were killed , including brig - gen mohammad reza zahedi and brig - gen mohammad hadi haji - rahimi , whom it described as commanders and " senior military advisers ". iranian media said zahedi , 63 , was a senior figure in the quds force - the revolutionary guards ' overseas operations arm - and served as commander in lebanon and syria between 2008 and 2016 . haji - rahimi was meanwhile identified as zahedi ' s deputy . zahedi is one of the most high - profile iranian figures believed to have been killed by israel in the country ' s long campaign of targeted assassinations . the uk - based syrian observatory for human rights , which relies on a network of sources on the ground in syria , reported that eight people were killed - a high - ranking leader of the quds force , two iranian advisers and five members of the revolutionary guards . syria ' s foreign minister faisal mekdad said he strongly condemned what he called " this heinous terrorist attack ", adding that it had killed " a number of innocent people ". in a telephone conversation with mr mekdad , iranian foreign minister hossein amir - abdollahian described the strike as " a violation of all international obligations and conventions " and " blamed the consequences of this action on the zionist regime ", the iranian foreign ministry said . he also " stressed the need for a serious response by the international community ". a white house spokeswoman said us president joe biden was aware of the reports . in a briefing to journalists on monday , idf spokesperson rear adm daniel hagari said an apparent drone attack on a naval base in the southern israeli city of eilat was " a very serious incident ". the drone was " made and directed by iran ", he said . this attack followed suspected israeli strikes on damascus and the northern city of aleppo last friday , which the syrian observatory for human rights said killed 53 people , including 38 syrian soldiers and seven members of the iran - backed lebanese armed group hezbollah . in january , another strike in mezzeh that was blamed on israel killed five senior revolutionary guards and several syrian security personnel . israel has previously acknowledged carrying out strikes in syria to combat what it calls iran ' s " military entrenchment ", as well as shipments of iranian weapons to allied groups which it proscribes as terrorist organisations . iran has said revolutionary guards have been sent to syria to " advise " president bashar al - assad ' s forces in the country ' s civil war , but it has denied they have been involved in combat or established bases .