israel ' s attack on iran was not the fierce response that us president joe biden and other western leaders had feared . they have been urging israel to draw a line under the dangerous series of events that started with israel ' s assassination of a senior iranian general in damascus on 1 april . more than six months after the hamas attacks on israel , war continues in gaza and has spread to the area either side of the lebanon - israel border and to the gulf . the fear is that the middle east is on the brink of an all - out war , with global as well as regional dangers . the iranians are playing down the significance of what ' s happened in isfahan . initial reports said there had been no attack . later , an analyst on state tv said air defences had knocked out drones that had been launched by " infiltrators ". official media outlets have posted jokey photos of miniature drones . israel was responding to the attack last saturday from iran . despite years of enmity and threats it was the first time since the establishment of the islamic republic in 1979 that iran had launched a direct strike from its territory onto israel ' s . during that attack iran launched more than 300 missiles and drones . almost all of them were destroyed by israel ' s air defences , augmented by forces from the us , uk and jordan . the iranians had made their intentions clear , giving israel and its allies time to prepare themselves , and quickly issued a statement at the un in new york that their retaliation was over . mr biden urged israel to " take the win " but israel insisted it would hit back . from the outset , this crisis has shown how badly iran and israel understand each other . both miscalculated , deepening the crisis . israel seemed to believe that iran would not respond with anything stronger than outrage when it killed general mohammed reza zahedi in damascus . its air strike flattened the consulate at the iranian diplomatic compound in damascus , killing six others , including another general . iran announced it regarded the attack as a strike on its own territory . israel claimed the premises were not protected by diplomatic conventions as the iranian islamic revolutionary guard corps had turned them into a military post . iran , and indeed western allies of israel , did not accept a unilateral reclassification of the building ' s status - and the government in tehran hoped israel would agree to a draw a line after its response . that was another serious miscalculation . if the attack on isfahan is not followed up with more attacks , then the immediate tensions will ease . what happened overnight could be israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu ' s attempt to respond , without alienating mr biden any more than he has already . if this is it , another question is whether it will be enough for the former generals in israel ' s war cabinet who are believed to want a strong response to , as they see it , restore israel ' s capacity to deter its enemies . mr netanyahu ' s ultranationalist coalition allies have also demanded a fierce retaliation from israel . the national security minister itamar ben gvir said that the israelis needed to " go berserk " when iran attacked . in a social media post , he described the isfahan strike as " feeble ". the best option for the region , in the opinion of western governments , is for both iran and israel to draw a line under the saga . however , even if this is the end of this stage of this crisis , new precedents have been set . iran has hit israel in a direct attack , and israel has responded with its own direct attack . that is a change in what are often referred to in the region as the " rules of the game " governing the long conflict between iran and israel . the long clandestine war between the two countries has come out of the shadows . in the process iran and israel have shown that for all the obsessive attention they devote to each other , they are not good at reading each other ' s intentions . in a highly combustible part of the world , that is not encouraging .