israeli defence minister yoav gallant has voiced open frustration at the government ’ s failure to address the question of a post - war plan for gaza . in a rare public sign of divisions over the direction of the military campaign within israel ’ s war cabinet , mr gallant urged prime minister benjamin netanyahu to declare publicly that israel has no plans to take over civilian and military rule in gaza .“ since october , i have been raising this issue consistently in the cabinet ,” he said , “ and have received no response .” prime minister benjamin netanyahu responded harshly , saying he was " not ready to exchange hamastan for fatahstan ," in reference to rival palestinian groups hamas and fatah . indecision , he warned , would leave only two bad options in gaza : hamas rule or israeli military rule . either “ would erode our military achievements , lessen the pressure on hamas and sabotage chances of achieving a framework for the release of hostages ,” mr gallant said . another member of the war cabinet , benny gantz - who has disagreed with netanyahu in the past - agreed with the defence minister : " gallant speaks the truth . it is the leadership ' s responsibility to do the right thing for the country at all costs ." mr gallant said that the defence establishment , over which he presides , had presented a war plan to the cabinet as early as the night when israel ’ s ground invasion of gaza began last october . he said the plans included proposals “ to establish a local , non - hostile palestinian governing alternative .” the day after hamas , he said , would “ only be achieved by palestinian entities taking control of gaza , accompanied by international actors .” he said these proposals were never debated , nor were any alternatives presented . mr gallant said the failure to set out a plan was leading israel towards a “ dangerous course ” involving israeli military and civilian rule over gaza . he described that prospect as “ a negative and dangerous option for the state of israel strategically , militarily , and from a security standpoint .”“ i must reiterate : i will not agree to the establishment of israeli military rule in gaza . israel must not establish civilian rule in gaza .”“ i call on prime minister benjamin netanyahu to make a decision and declare that israel will not establish civilian control over the gaza strip , that israel will not establish military governance in the gaza strip , and that a governing alternative to hamas in the gaza strip will be raised immediately .” israeli press reports have recently included suggestions that military leaders have grave misgivings about the lack of a viable plan for gaza after the war ends . mr gallant ’ s comments this evening bring those misgivings out into the open in a politically explosive way . on a visit to ukraine on wednesday , us secretary of state antony blinken said that israel needed to produce a clear plan for gaza ' s future ." we can ' t have anarchy and a vacuum that ' s likely to be filled by chaos ," mr blinken said . mr netanyahu has previously insisted that discussions on the future governance of gaza are just “ empty talk ” as long as hamas remains in the territory .