for weeks , president joe biden and his senior officials have been losing patience with the way that israel is fighting the war in gaza . they have used increasingly stiff language to convey their displeasure to israel and the wider world . the decision to allow the latest ceasefire resolution through the security council shows that president biden has decided that strong words are not enough . removing diplomatic protection from israel ' s conduct of the war is a significant step . it shows the depth of the rift that has opened between the white house and israel ' s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu . prime minister netanyahu responded with a broadside directed at israel ' s most important ally . he condemned the us decision not to use its veto , saying it had harmed the war effort and attempts to free the hostages taken by hamas on 7 october last year . joe biden and his top officials might file those remarks under the heading of extreme ingratitude . the president is deeply attached to israel , calls himself a zionist , and has provided the israeli people with emotional support as well as all the military and diplomatic assistance their state has needed since 7 october last year . he wants freedom for the hostages as well as the destruction of hamas as a military force . but mr biden wants israel to do that , as he put it , " the right way ". in those devastating first weeks of the war president biden warned israel not to be blinded by rage , as america had been after the al - qaeda attacks on 11 september 2001 . the us president travelled to israel , comforted families of victims of the hamas attacks and even embraced mr netanyahu , with whom he has never had an easy relationship . president biden and his secretary of state , antony blinken , who ' s visited israel six times since 7 october , have repeatedly told israel to respect international humanitarian law , which includes an obligation to protect civilians . at the start of the war , as those first american warnings were being prepared , prime minister netanyahu promised israelis what he called a " mighty vengeance ". since then , more than 30 , 000 palestinians , mostly civilians , have been killed with weapons mostly provided by the us . with gaza in ruins , famine looming for palestinian civilians and the prospect of many more deaths in an israeli offensive on rafah in southern gaza , president biden seems to have had enough of having his advice ignored . israel claims that it always respects the laws of war and denies that it blocks humanitarian aid to the people of gaza . but evidence has piled up that the israelis are not telling the truth , with children dying of hunger a few miles from ample stores of food in israel and egypt . the americans , and the rest of the world , can see the evidence presented by the un and aid agencies that gaza is on the brink of famine . the us military is dropping aid by air and bringing a temporary dock across the atlantic so that supplies can come to gaza by sea , while israel lets only small amounts through the port of ashdod , a modern container terminal only half an hour ' s drive north of gaza . the decision not to veto the ramadan ceasefire resolution is also an attempt by the americans to push back at accusations that they have enabled israel ' s actions . it comes after prime minister netanyahu has rejected , vehemently , the biden administration ' s plans to find a way through the worst middle east crisis in decades . the americans are trying to show that israel ' s impunity from international pressure has limits . security council resolutions are normally considered to have the force of international law . israel must decide now whether it will respect the resolution , which has been welcomed by hamas as well as the palestinian representative at the un . mr netanyahu ' s coalition government relies on the support of jewish ultranationalist extremists . they will urge him to ignore the resolution . if he does , the us will have to respond . if more words are not enough , the biggest lever at president biden ' s disposal controls the air bridge of arms supplies to israel , dozens of flights by huge transport planes bringing in the munitions israel has used in the war , as well the ones it would need if it goes through with its plan to widen the ground war to rafah . the us - israel alliance is deep - in 1948 president harry truman recognised israel ' s independence 11 minutes after it had been declared - but at times it is dysfunctional . crises happen when israel defies the wishes of american presidents , and harms what they see as us interests . this isn ' t the first time that benjamin netanyahu has infuriated the men in the white house . he has done so regularly since he first became israel ' s prime minister in 1996 . but his defiance of the us has never been this prolonged , or bitter , and no crisis in the long us - israel alliance has been as serious as the one that ' s developed in almost six months of the gaza war .