israeli officials are increasingly concerned that the international criminal court ( icc ) is planning to seek arrest warrants for their military and political leaders on suspicion of war crimes . reports suggest prime minister benjamin netanyahu could be among them . the icc , based in the hague , has been investigating israel ' s actions in the occupied territories for the past three years - and more recently the actions of hamas as well . it has the power to charge and try individuals for the most serious crimes under international law . it has previously issued arrest warrants for leaders including russia ' s vladimir putin , muammar gaddafi of libya , and ugandan warlord joseph kony . mr netanyahu has called the prospect of senior israel figures joining the wanted list " an outrage of historic proportions ", accusing the icc of attempting to paralyse israel ' s ability to defend itself . but the fact that he ' s chosen to make such strident public comments suggests that , behind the scenes , such a scenario is being actively discussed . while the icc has not confirmed the israeli claims , when chief prosecutor karim khan kc visited israel and the occupied west bank last december his message was a clear one . the british barrister toured the sites of hamas ' attacks in israeli villages close to the gaza fence , which hamas - led gunmen burst through on 7 october . he also met political leaders , and travelled to ramallah to speak to the families of palestinian victims about their experiences in gaza and the west bank . he condemned the violence suffered by civilians on both sides , and promised to investigate . " all actors must comply with international humanitarian law ," he clarified in a statement at the time . " if you do not do so , do not complain when my office is required to act ." mr khan said the 7 october attacks - in which hamas - led gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people , mostly civilians , and seized 253 hostages , according to israeli tallies - represented " some of the most serious international crimes that shock the conscience of humanity , crimes which the icc was established to address ". in israel ' s case , his concerns were twofold . he stressed the obligation to conduct its military operation in gaza according to " clear legal parameters that govern armed conflict ". israel has been accused of failing to sufficiently protect civilians during its months - long bombardment , although it insists it takes all necessary measures to avoid casualties . the hamas - run health ministry in the territory says more than 34 , 500 people have been killed there since the war began , and that many of that number are children . mr khan also underlined the need for humanitarian aid to get into gaza , with access to food , water and medical supplies a basic right for civilians " without further delay , and at pace and at scale ". he also urged hamas not to divert or misuse the supplies when they did arrive , after accusations by israel that its members were looting trucks and stealing aid , stopping it from reaching the wider population . israel isn ' t a member of the icc and it says the court has no jurisdiction over it . but the court has ruled that since 2015 it does in fact have jurisdiction over the west bank , east jerusalem and gaza after the palestinians ratified its founding treaty , the rome statute , as the state of palestine . no western - style democracy has had an icc arrest warrant issued for its leader before . if it happens to mr netanyahu , he ' ll be the first . israelis have particular concerns about the stigma and potential isolation that would come with it . michael oren was israel ' s ambassador to the united states between 2009 and 2013 . he points to the recent case brought by south africa at the international court of justice ( icj ), which accused israel of genocide against the palestinian population in gaza - an accusation israel vehemently rejects . in january , the court issued an interim ruling that ordered israel to take steps to prevent genocidal acts in gaza , but stopped short of telling it to stop its military offensive . " israel emerged from those proceedings relatively unscathed , but the fact that the proceedings were held at all meant that israel had lost the battle ," he told the bbc . " they should not have been held at all , and certainly it ' s a blow to our international standing and our security . because a country whose leaders are accused of presiding over war crimes , that country is more vulnerable than a country that isn ' t ." sir geoffrey nice kc , another british barrister , led the prosecution of the former serbian president slobodan milosevic for war crimes at the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ). he points out that the actions of both sides in this conflict are within the icc ' s focus . " any investigation will not just be the israeli defense forces and political and military leadership but also hamas ," he told the bbc . " it ' s to be hoped that alleged hamas fighters and leaders are not all shot on sight , that they are detained and made available for trial by an international tribunal ." he also addressed suggestions that the icc could come under political pressure to reconsider its decision - making . " governments around the world , particularly large and powerful governments , are there to protect their country ' s interests . " so if they see a trial coming along , or an investigation ... that would cause them as a country great reputational damage , and if they reckon they can interfere with the trial or the investigative or trial processes to save them from that reputational damage , then they ' ll do that , because they are acting in the interests of their country ." the timeframe for issuing warrants can vary , with weeks and even months sometimes elapsing between the point at which the icc prosecutor requests it , and judges grant it . sometimes the details can be kept confidential if it ' s deemed that making them public would lessen the prospect of an arrest . such a move against mr netanyahu , his political colleagues or israeli military commanders would have practical implications too . it would affect their ability to travel widely , as rome statute nations are obligated to hand over visiting individuals with outstanding warrants against them . however , some of those nations have ignored icc warrants in recent years . former israeli ambassador michael oren believes the eventual impact would be far wider , changing the narrative of israeli society " generally , it responds to love . it doesn ' t respond to aggression . if you want to get concessions out of israelis do not hit them over the head , embrace them ," he said . " all of these measures tend to move the political needle in this country rightward and not the other way . it would have a boomerang effect , and rather than opening pathways to possible diplomatic process it will likely constrict it ."