the israeli military says 99 % of the missiles and drones fired by iran overnight were intercepted without hitting their targets . iran said the assault was in response to a deadly attack on an iranian diplomatic compound in syria two weeks ago . where this goes next from here depends in large part on how israel decides to respond to last night ' s attack . countries in the region and elsewhere , including those that deeply dislike the iranian regime , have urged restraint . iran ' s position is along the lines of : " account settled , that is the end of the matter , do not hit back at us or we will mount a much stronger attack against you that you will not be able to ward off ." but , israel has already vowed " a significant response " and its government has often been called one of the most hardline in israeli history . it responded to the murderous hamas - led attacks of 7 october on southern israel within hours and then spent the next six months battering the gaza strip . israel ' s war cabinet is unlikely to leave this direct attack from iran unanswered , however calibrated and limited its effect has been on the ground . so what are israel ' s options ? it could listen to its neighbours in the region and exercise what is known as " strategic patience ", holding off from responding in kind and instead continuing to target iran ' s proxy allies in the region such as hezbollah in lebanon or military supply sites in syria , as it has been doing for years . israel could retaliate with a series of similar , carefully calibrated , long - range missile strikes , targeting only those missile bases from which iran launched last night ' s attack . that would still be seen by iran as an escalation , since it would be a very direct attack by israel on iran itself , as opposed to hitting its proxy militias around the region . or , israel could choose to climb one more rung up the escalatory ladder , by broadening its possible response to include bases , training camps and command - and - control centres belonging to iran ' s powerful revolutionary guards corps - the irgc . either of the latter two options risk prompting further retaliation by iran . the key question here is whether this all drags in the us , leading to a full - scale shooting war between iran and us forces in the region . the us has military facilities in all six of the gulf arab states , as well as in syria , iraq and jordan . these could all become targets for iran ' s massive stockpile of ballistic and other missiles that it has managed to build up over the years , despite international sanctions . iran could also do something it has long threatened to do if attacked : it could try to close the strategically vital strait of hormuz , using mines , drones and fast attack craft , choking off nearly a quarter of the world ' s oil supplies . this is the nightmare scenario , dragging in the us and the gulf states into a region - wide war , which many governments are now working around the clock to avoid .