it has been nearly six months since hamas fighters broke through from gaza into israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking hundreds hostage . in response , israel vowed to " crush and destroy hamas " so that it no longer posed any threat , and to bring all the hostages home . in the brutal war that has followed , at least 33 , 000 palestinians have been killed , according to the hamas - run health ministry , and large parts of gaza have been destroyed . israel says it has killed thousands of hamas fighters and destroyed much of the vast network of tunnels beneath gaza , which hamas has used to carry out attacks . bbc verify has combed through public statements and social media posts by the israel defense forces ( idf ) and assessed the evidence behind israel ' s stated aims . before 7 october , hamas was thought to have about 30 , 000 fighters in gaza , according to reports quoting idf commanders . many of hamas ' s senior political figures such as ismail haniyeh , widely considered to be the group ' s overall leader , live abroad . but many of its military leadership structure are thought to be inside gaza . in a recent statement , the idf said it had killed about 13 , 000 hamas fighters since the start of the war , although it did not say how it calculated that figure . israel also publishes the names of individual hamas leaders it says have been killed . a total of 113 people have been named in this way since october , the overwhelming majority of whom were reported killed in the first three months of the war . by comparison , the israeli army did not report any senior hamas leaders killed in gaza this year until march . on 26 march , the idf said it had killed marwan issa , deputy commander of hamas ' s military wing . considered one of israel ' s most - wanted men , he would be the group ' s most senior leader to be killed since the war began . the us has said it believes he was killed , but hamas has not confirmed it . the idf publishes names of individuals who it says are senior hamas leaders who have been killed , but it is not possible to verify whether they are members of the group . one of those named in this category was mustafa thuraya , who was working as a freelance journalist in southern gaza when his vehicle was hit in january . we also found duplicate names in the list , which we have discounted from the total . outside gaza , hamas political leader saleh al - arouri died in an explosion in beirut ' s southern suburb of dahiyeh in january . israel is widely considered responsible for that attack . however , experts we spoke to said many of the group ' s prominent leaders in gaza , including yahya sinwar , are still believed to be alive . " the idf hasn ' t been able to get to the top brass of the hamas leadership ," says mairav zonszein , a senior analyst on israeli - palestinian affairs at the international crisis group . " both on a symbolic level of getting to the main leaders , and also on the level of replacing hamas as the holder of the territory , that ' s something that it hasn ' t been able to achieve ," ms zonszein says . according to israeli official figures , 253 people were taken hostage on 7 october . of these : the youngest confirmed living hostage is 18 and the oldest aged 85 . of the remaining 129 hostages , israel says at least 34 are dead . hamas says the number of dead hostages is higher - the result of idf air strikes . but it is not possible to verify these allegations . the two youngest hostages taken in the hamas attacks were ariel and kfir , who were 4 years and 9 months old respectively at the time of their abduction . their deaths have been reported , but not confirmed . as part of its pledge to eliminate hamas , israel promised to destroy the group ' s extensive tunnel network beneath gaza , which it uses to move goods and people . " think of the gaza strip as one layer for civilians and then another layer for hamas . we are trying to get to that second layer that hamas has built ," idf spokesperson jonathan conricus said in october . hamas has previously said that its tunnel network stretches for 500km ( 311 miles ), although there is no way to independently verify this . we asked the idf how many tunnels , and what proportion of the total tunnel network , they had destroyed . in their reply , they said their forces had " destroyed a great deal of the terrorist infrastructure in gaza ". the idf has occasionally shown evidence of hamas tunnels they ' ve uncovered . for example , in november , the idf released video footage of part of a tunnel network underneath the al - shifa hospital in gaza city which it said was being used as a command centre . to try to determine the extent of the overall network uncovered by the israeli forces , bbc verify has reviewed all the idf messages on the social media platform telegram referencing tunnels in gaza , between 7 october 2023 and 26 march 2024 . of these , 198 mentioned the discovery of tunnels , where the army said it had located tunnels or tunnel shafts . another 141 messages claim that a tunnel has been destroyed or dismantled . most of those did not give precise details or specific locations , so it is not possible to corroborate the extent of the network the idf has uncovered or destroyed . the labyrinth beneath gaza is made up of several components , including tunnel routes and rooms of various sizes , as well as the point at which the tunnel meets the surface - these are known as tunnel shafts . of the messages we analysed , 36 referenced striking a total of more than 400 tunnel shafts . however , equating a shaft with an entire tunnel would be misleading , says dr daphnã © richemond - barak , an expert on underground warfare who teaches at reichman university in israel . the simple destruction of tunnel shafts leaves the network intact , she says . " given the scale and depth of hamas ' s tunnel network , it is impossible to fully eliminate all of its underground military structure ," she adds . israel ' s war aims have come at an immense cost to palestinians in gaza . more than 33 , 000 people have been killed , according to the hamas - run health ministry . the ministry ' s latest demographic breakdown from 5 april indicates more than 70 % of those killed were women and children . many others have been displaced and left homeless as israeli forces attempt to destroy hamas infrastructure . over 1 . 7 million people have been internally displaced , according to the united nations . residential areas have been left ruined , bustling streets reduced to rubble , universities destroyed and farmlands churned up . more than 56 % of gaza ' s buildings have been damaged or destroyed since 7 october , according to satellite data analysis . six months since the war began , it is still unclear whether israel has met its aims in the war . additional reporting by rob england , maryam ahmed , jamie ryan and emma pengelly . clarification 9 april : we originally quoted dr daphnã © richemond - barak as saying : " i don ' t think we ' ve seen a lot of full destruction of tunnels in this war ." however , she was specifically referring to the destruction of tunnels using water . we ' ve subsequently amended this article to include a more relevant quote from her about the difficulty of fully destroying the hamas tunnel network . what do you want bbc verify to investigate ?