us secretary of state antony blinken has told israel and hamas that " the time is now " for a deal to bring about a ceasefire in gaza and free the remaining hostages held there . mr blinken said a deal was on the table and hamas should agree to it . mediators are awaiting a response from hamas to the latest proposal . it reportedly involves a 40 - day ceasefire and the release of more than 30 israeli hostages in exchange for many more palestinian prisoners . " we are determined to get a ceasefire that brings the hostages home and to get it now , and the only reason that that wouldn ' t be achieved is because of hamas ," mr blinken said as he met israeli president isaac herzog in tel aviv . " there is a proposal on the table , and as we ' ve said , no delays , no excuses . the time is now ." a senior hamas official has denied the group is to blame for delays on reaching a new deal . families of the hostages were demonstrating outside and mr blinken greeted them , saying setting their loved ones free was " at the heart of everything we ' re trying to do ". about 130 hostages from among 253 kidnapped by hamas during its unprecedented attack on israel on 7 october remain unaccounted for . at least 34 of them are presumed dead . the rest have been released or rescued . the top us diplomat later visited the israeli port of ashdod , about 30km ( 20 miles ) north of gaza , where he insisted that israel had made meaningful concessions to reach a hostage and ceasefire deal . mr blinken said israel had made progress on getting more aid into gaza but this needed to be accelerated given the immense scale of need . ashdod was recently opened to aid shipments destined for gaza , where the un has warned of severe food shortages and looming famine . on wednesday the israel defense forces ( idf ) said 30 trucks of humanitarian supplies from jordan had for the first time entered northern gaza via the erez crossing . mr blinken also repeated the us position that israel should not launch a military incursion into the overcrowded southern city of rafah without a clear plan to protect more than a million palestinians who have been sheltering from the war there in dire humanitarian conditions . " on rafah itself - our position is clear , it has not changed , it won ' t change . we cannot , will not support a major military operation in rafah absent an effective plan making sure that civilians are not harmed . we have not seen such a plan ," he said . rafah is the only major city in gaza that idf ground forces have not taken control of during half a year of war . however the city has been repeatedly hit by deadly israeli air strikes . on tuesday israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu - who also met mr blinken on wednesday - said israel would launch an invasion of rafah regardless of truce talks with hamas . " we will enter rafah and we will eliminate the hamas battalions there with or without a deal , in order to achieve the total victory ," he said . members of mr netanyahu ' s governing coalition are divided on the issue . foreign minister israel katz told israeli tv a rafah operation would be suspended if there was a deal . but far - right ministers have said if that happens they will bring down the government . the un , western allies of israel and humanitarian agencies have all warned that an assault on rafah risks a humanitarian disaster . west bank - based palestinian president mahmoud abbas said it would be the " biggest catastrophe in the palestinian people ' s history " because , he said , it would trigger large - scale displacement of palestinians out of gaza entirely . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 34 , 500 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry .