food distribution in the southern gaza city of rafah has been suspended due to a lack of supplies and insecurity , the un says . the un agency for palestinian refugees , unrwa , warned its distribution centre and a world food programme warehouse were now inaccessible because of the ongoing israeli military operation against hamas in eastern rafah . at least 815 , 000 of the more than a million people taking refuge in rafah have fled since the israeli operation began two weeks ago . unrwa also said its health centres had not received any medical supplies in the past 10 days . the news came as the us said it did not believe any of the aid that had entered northern gaza through a newly - completed floating pier had been distributed to palestinians by humanitarian organisations . on saturday , crowds of palestinians desperate for food intercepted a number of wfp lorries transporting aid from the pier , which prompted the agency to suspend deliveries until new routes could be identified . israel launched a military campaign to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage . more than 35 , 640 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . after seven months of war in gaza , israel has insisted victory is impossible without taking rafah and eliminating the last remaining hamas battalions there . but the un and western powers have warned that an all - out assault could lead to mass civilian casualties and a humanitarian catastrophe . on 6 may , the israel defense forces ( idf ) ordered residents of eastern rafah to evacuate for their own safety before it began what it called “ precise operations ” against hamas operatives and infrastructure . since then , troops have advanced into central neighbourhoods and taken control of the rafah border crossing with egypt . the crossing remains closed , while the un says the nearby kerem shalom crossing with israel is too dangerous to access . on monday , israel ’ s defence minister , yoav gallant , declared that it was “ committed to broadening the ground operation in rafah ”. unrwa said in a report on tuesday that it had been forced to suspend food distribution because the israeli operation had left its distribution centre and a wfp warehouse inaccessible . when asked about the ramifications , un spokesperson stephane dujarric told reporters in new york : “ people don ’ t eat .” it is not clear how many people are still living in the rafah area . but the head of unwa implied it was more than 800 , 000 on sunday , when he said that “ nearly half of the population are on the road ”. the idf has told them to head to an “ expanded humanitarian area ” that stretches from nearby al - mawasi to the central town of deir al - balah and said they will find field hospitals , tents , food and other supplies . however , the un has said nowhere is safe in gaza and that the designated area is already crammed with people and does not have clean drinking water supplies and sanitation facilities . the idf said on tuesday that its soldiers were continuing “ targeted raids on ... terrorist infrastructure and buildings ” in eastern rafah , and that it had “ eliminated dozens of terrorists ” who tried to approach them . another statement said it was facilitating “ the passage of hundreds of trucks containing food , water , medical supplies , and shelter equipment ” across gaza . it reported that 381 aid lorries were transferred via kerem shalom on tuesday and that another 70 entered northern gaza via the erez west crossing . but it also noted 650 lorry loads remained waiting for collection by aid agencies at the two crossings . as well as saying that kerem shalom is difficult to access safely , the un has noted that areas in the vicinity of erez west are under other israeli evacuation orders . a un - backed assessment published in march warned that 1 . 1 million people in gaza were facing catastrophic levels of hunger and that famine was imminent by may in northern gaza , where an estimated 300 , 000 people are trapped . no formal famine declaration has been made , but wfp executive director cindy mccain said earlier this month that “ there is full - blown famine in the north , and it ' s moving its way south ”. on friday , the first lorry loads of aid rolled off the us military ’ s floating pier south - west of gaza city , which us officials have said will “ surge humanitarian assistance ”. us central command announced early on tuesday that 569 tonnes of aid had been delivered by cargo ships that sailed from cyprus . but later in the day , pentagon press secretary maj gen pat ryder told reporters in washington that none of those supplies had yet been distributed by humanitarian organisations . mr dujarric said contractors were able on friday to drive 10 aid lorries from the pier to a wfp warehouse in the central town of deir al - balah . but the next day 11 of the 16 lorries which set off were intercepted by hungry crowds ." these trucks were traveling through areas where there ' d been no aid ,” mr dujarric said . “ i think people feared that they would never see aid . they grabbed what they could .” gen ryder said there had been discussions among the us , israel and the un " to identify alternative routes for the safe movement of staff and cargo ”.“ we do anticipate that assistance will be distributed in the coming days , of course , conditions permitting ,” he added . meanwhile , the head of the world health organization warned that the largest partially functional hospital in northern gaza was reportedly hit four times on tuesday , as battles rage between israeli forces and palestinian armed groups in the nearby jabalia area . the idf said it was reviewing reports from medics at kamal adwan hospital in beit lahia that its emergency department had been struck by israeli missiles , forcing them to rush patients on hospital beds to a street outside . the who also said al - awda hospital in jabalia had been besieged since sunday , with staff , patients and people accompanying them trapped inside . tens of thousands of civilians have fled jabalia since 11 may , when the idf said it would re - enter the area because hamas had regrouped there .