three arrests have been made after people protested against the war in gaza in a university and city centre . a group of students barricaded themselves inside a newcastle university building on wednesday . northumbria police said a number of protesters refused to comply with its instructions and caused " considerable disruption " in the city centre later that evening . two men in their 20s were arrested in connection with public order offences and a man in his 60s was arrested for breach of the peace . the protesters occupied the armstrong building for about five hours . police were called at about 16 : 10 bst and a spokesman said they had engaged with " all parties ". a spokesman said : " while the activity mainly passed without incident , a number of protesters outside the building refused to comply with police instruction and seemed intent on gaining entry ." later that evening , some protesters moved on to other parts of the city centre – causing considerable disruption ." the men arrested for public order offences were still in custody , police said , while the other man was released . the force added : " as a force , we uphold the right to peaceful protest . however , if any criminal offences are committed , then those responsible can expect to be dealt with appropriately ." about 50 people occupied the queen victoria road building , with about 100 gathered outside on wednesday afternoon . the newcastle coalition apartheid off campus group said at the time it had escalated its action after four weeks of peaceful protest . the protesters had called on the university to cut ties with defence companies and israeli universities , and for it to call for an " immediate , unconditional and permanent ceasefire in gaza ". the university said unauthorised occupation would be treated as trespass and any students identified would face disciplinary action . the union of jewish students said jewish students in the city had received " abuse " since the encampment began ." we call on the university leadership to ensure jewish students can study in safety on campus ," a spokesperson added . the protest is one of a number of pro - palestinian demonstrations taking place at universities around the uk , including manchester , leeds , and goldsmiths in london . they followed on from similar protests in the us , where more than 1 , 000 people have been arrested during demonstrations . follow bbc newcastle on x ( formerly twitter ), facebook and instagram . send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria @ bbc . co . uk .