a baby rescued from her dying mother ' s womb after an israeli air strike in southern gaza has died , the bbc has learned . baby sabreen al - sakani was delivered by caesarean section in a rafah hospital shortly after midnight on sunday . amid chaotic scenes doctors resuscitated the baby , using a hand pump to push air into her lungs . however she died on thursday and has been buried next to her mother after whom she was named . baby sabreen was among 16 children killed in two air strikes in rafah last weekend . all were killed in a bombardment targeting the housing complex where they lived . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said they were targeting hamas fighters and infrastructure . sabreen ' s mother , also called sabreen , was seven - and - a - half months pregnant when the israeli air strike on the al - sakani family home took place just before midnight on saturday as she , her husband shukri and their three - year - old daughter malak were asleep . she suffered extensive injuries and her husband and malak were killed , but the baby was still alive in her mother ' s womb when rescue workers reached the site . they rushed sabreen to hospital , where doctors performed an emergency caesarean section to deliver the child . it appeared that baby sabreen had stabilised and she was subsequently placed in an incubator . at the time doctors described her condition as critical . she weighed just 1 . 4kg ( 3 . 1 lbs ) when she was born and was in severe respiratory distress , which doctors said was because she had been born prematurely . " this child should have been in the mother ' s womb at this time , but she was deprived of this right ," dr mohammed salama , head of the emergency neo - natal unit at emirati hospital in rafah , said after she was born . baby sabreen ' s maternal grandmother , mirvat al - sakani , told the bbc the family had planned to adopt the child . the hamas - run health ministry in gaza says that of the more than 34 , 000 people killed in gaza since the war began on 7 october , at least two - thirds are women and children . israel launched its offensive after about 1 , 200 israelis and foreigners - mostly civilians - were killed and 253 others were taken back to gaza as hostages , according to israeli tallies . there are now an estimated 1 . 4 million people crowded into rafah having been told by the idf to move south to safety earlier in the war . however israel says it is planning a ground offensive into rafah , with israeli pm benjamin netanyahu insisting it is necessary to defeat hamas and search for hostages . satellite images show two new tent encampments in southern gaza with israeli media reports saying preparations to evacuate civilians from rafah were under way . the us has appealed to israel to adopt a targeted approach rather than launch a full - scale invasion of rafah , which might precipitate an even greater humanitarian crisis .