columbia university has cancelled its main graduation after weeks of protests on campus over the israel - gaza war . the ivy league school said it was ditching the 15 may commencement in favour of smaller celebrations to focus on " keeping them safe ". the new york city university said it had arrived at the decision after consultations with student leaders . colleges across the us are bracing for disruptions at graduations amid pro - palestinian protests . columbia university said in a statement on monday : " our students emphasized that these smaller - scale , school - based celebrations are most meaningful to them and their families . " they are eager to cross the stage to applause and family pride and hear from their school ' s invited guest speakers . " as a result , we will focus our resources on those school ceremonies and on keeping them safe , respectful , and running smoothly ." there have been demonstrations at nearly 140 colleges across 45 states and washington dc since the protests started at columbia university in mid - april , according to a bbc tally . about 2 , 500 people have been arrested at campuses nationwide , according to an associated press count . last week , columbia called in the police to clear pro - palestinian protesters from its campus in upper manhattan , leading to more than 100 arrests . demonstrators had occupied hamilton hall , renaming it hind ' s hall , after a six - year - old palestinian girl who was killed in gaza . the college also sent in officers on 18 april to arrest more than 100 demonstrators who had pitched dozens of tents at the morningside neighbourhood campus . the protesters have been calling for the college to divest from companies they say are profiting from the israel - gaza war , but a number of incidents of antisemitism have been reported during the unrest . columbia has asked that new york police remain on campus until at least 17 may . also on monday , harvard university ' s president alan garber warned protesters must end the encampments on campus or face suspension . police in riot gear , meanwhile , arrested dozens of protesters while clearing a pro - palestinian encampment at the university of california san diego . monday ' s raid came a day after police in los angeles cleared out a similar encampment at the university of southern california ( usc ). no arrests were reported . in a statement on sunday , usc president carol folt said action had to be taken because the situation was " spiralling in a dangerous direction ". also on sunday , northeastern university ' s graduation ceremony in boston passed largely peacefully at the city ' s fenway park , with police on site . members of the graduating class held palestinian flags and chanted pro - palestinian phrases . other students waved israeli flags . similar demonstrations unfolded at the university of michigan ' s commencement in ann arbor on saturday . the university of mississippi , meanwhile , is investigating a student accused of apparently making monkey sounds towards a black woman during protests on campus last week . the student ' s membership of the phi delta theta fraternity has been revoked . social media videos showed pro - palestinian demonstrators shouted down by a larger group of counter - protesters last thursday . the college said it had opened an inquiry into " actions that conveyed hostility and racist overtones ". at princeton university , at least 17 students said on friday they would go on hunger strike until campus officials meet them to discuss divestment and a " cultural boycott of israel ". they are also demanding the new jersey college reverse punishment of students after police last week arrested 13 individuals for trespassing during an attempted sit - in . the students were barred from campus and face disciplinary action including possible suspension or expulsion . also on friday , faculty members from the university of california , los angeles ( ucla ) condemned the handling of student protests . history department faculty members posted two letters condemning the administration after police last week swarmed the campus to clear an encampment . university of virginia history professors , meanwhile , released an open letter condemning that institution after police arrested 25 people on saturday on campus , where pro - palestinian protesters had refused to remove an encampment .