children are dying of starvation in northern gaza , the world health organization ( who ) chief says . tedros adhanom ghebreyesus said the agency ' s visits over the weekend to the al - awda and kamal adwan hospitals were the first since early october . in a post on social media , he spoke of " grim findings ". a lack of food resulted in the deaths of 10 children and " severe levels of malnutrition ", while hospital buildings have been destroyed , he wrote . the hamas - run health ministry in gaza reported on sunday that at least 15 children had died from malnutrition and dehydration at the kamal adwan hospital . a sixteenth child died on sunday at a hospital in the southern city of rafah , the palestinian official news agency wafa reported on monday . dr tedros reported " severe levels of malnutrition , children dying of starvation , serious shortages of fuel , food and medical supplies , hospital buildings destroyed " in northern gaza , where an estimated 300 , 000 people are living with little food or clean water . " the lack of food resulted in the deaths of 10 children ," he posted on x , formerly known as twitter . the visits were the who ' s first in months " despite our efforts to gain more regular access to the north of gaza ", he wrote . " the situation at al - awda hospital is particularly appalling , as one of the buildings is destroyed ," he added . the un warned last week that famine in gaza was " almost inevitable ". a senior un aid official warned that at least 576 , 000 people across the gaza strip - one quarter of the population - faced catastrophic levels of food insecurity and one in six children under the age of two in the north were suffering from acute malnutrition . and the regional director of the un ' s children ' s agency , unicef , said " the child deaths we feared are here , as malnutrition ravages the gaza strip ". " these tragic and horrific deaths are man - made , predictable and entirely preventable ," adele khodr said in a statement on sunday . on saturday , the us a launched its first airdrop of humanitarian aid into gaza - including more than 38 , 000 meals . however , aid agencies have said these drops - which have also previously been carried out by the uk , france , egypt and jordan - are an inefficient way of getting supplies to people . the deliveries themselves have sometimes turned deadly . last week , at least 112 palestinians were reportedly killed when large crowds descended on lorries carrying aid while israeli tanks were present . israel said the tanks fired warning shots but did not strike the lorries and that many of the dead were trampled or run over . but this has been disputed by hamas , which said there was " undeniable " evidence of " direct firing at citizens ". some aid agencies have been facing difficulties with the authorities . philippe lazzarini , the head of the un ' s main human rights agency in the gaza strip , unrwa , on monday accused the israeli government of trying to " eliminate " its presence in gaza . israel has long accused different branches of the united nations , including unrwa , of bias and even of antisemitism . several western countries , including the uk , have paused funding to unrwa after israel accused some staff of roles in the 7 october attacks . mr lazzarini said that this was not just in response to " neutrality breaches of some of the staff " but had a wider political motive , which included plans to " eliminate the status of refugees and make sure that this is not part of a final political settlement ". he added that dismantling his organisation would lead to the collapse of the entire humanitarian response on gaza . the israeli military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel , the uk , us and others - after the group ' s gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 back to gaza as hostages . more than 30 , 500 people , mostly women and children , have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s health ministry .