lebanon is worried that israel might intensify its offensive against the lebanon - based shia militant group hezbollah , the country ’ s foreign minister has said , as the conflict between the two sides escalates along the border . in an interview with the bbc , abdallah bou habib said it was unlikely israeli forces would cross into lebanon but that there could be more fierce air strikes . israel and hezbollah have exchanged near - daily strikes and counter - strikes since october , when hezbollah launched rockets at israel in support of the palestinians in gaza a day after the deadly hamas attack on israel . the violence has killed civilians , israeli soldiers and hezbollah fighters and led to the displacement of tens of thousands of people on both sides of the border , raising fears of another major confrontation between hezbollah and israel , which fought a devastating month - long war in 2006 . “ as a government , we ’ re concerned ,” mr bou habib said in the interview in beirut . “ if there ’ s an escalation , it ’ ll be from the skies ... i don ’ t think israel will [ carry out ] a land invasion ... whatever they want to achieve from land , they can achieve from the skies , and they have dominance in the skies .” about 60 , 000 people from northern israel remain evacuated and israel has reinforced military positions near the frontier , while repeatedly threatening to expand the offensive against hezbollah if diplomacy fails to de - escalate the situation . last week , defence minister yoav gallant warned of a “ hot summer ” along the border , days after saying a war would mean “ catastrophe ” for hezbollah and lebanon . it remains unclear , however , what an escalation of israel ’ s campaign could involve , and whether the israel defense forces ( idf ) would be able to fight on two fronts simultaneously , as the war against hamas in gaza continues . a wider conflict would be damaging for israel too . hezbollah - iranian - backed and long considered by israel to be a much more formidable enemy than hamas - has an arsenal that includes precision - guided missiles able to strike deep into israeli territory .“ the [ israeli ] minister of defence has been saying , ‘ we ’ ll return lebanon to the stone age ' [ in the event of a war with hezbollah ]. [ but ] we ’ re neighbours , no matter what , geographically , and i don ’ t think he wants a country in the stone age next to his . [ because ] that means he ’ ll be in trouble as well ,” mr bou habib said .“ i think these words , a lot of [ western ] ambassadors tell us , are for domestic consumption , more than for us .” mr bou habib ’ s comments came at the end of a particularly violent week on both sides of the border . israeli attacks killed at least seven people in southern lebanon , including two hezbollah fighters and a technician who had been fixing a phone tower , according to local authorities . in israel , the idf said hezbollah attacks killed three of its soldiers in the north of the country . since october , israeli strikes have killed more than 350 people in lebanon , mostly fighters belonging to hezbollah and allied groups but also more than 50 civilians . in israel , attacks from lebanon have killed more than 20 people , including at least a dozen soldiers . hezbollah says the attacks with rockets , anti - tank missiles and explosive drones are in support of hamas , aimed at diverting israeli troops from gaza to the border with lebanon . both groups are considered terrorist organisations by the uk , the us and others , and are part of the so - called axis of resistance , an alliance of factions across the middle east supported by iran . in southern lebanon , a hezbollah stronghold , villages are empty as an estimated 90 , 000 residents have fled . houses and other buildings lie destroyed while agricultural fields have been burned by white phosphorus dropped by israel , mr bou habib said . experts have warned that those strikes are likely to have a long - term impact on the environment , which could make the areas uninhabitable . until now , the attacks have been largely contained to areas along the lebanon - israel border , as hezbollah has taken steps to avoid sparking an all - out conflict . israeli strikes , however , have increasingly hit targets deep inside lebanon , including the eastern city of baalbek , another hezbollah stronghold . lebanon ’ s government , which has limited influence over the group , has called for the full implementation of the united nations security council resolution 1701 , to solve the current israel - hezbollah conflict . the text was approved to end the 2006 war , which started after hezbollah killed eight israeli soldiers and kidnapped two others in a cross - border attack . the resolution includes the withdrawal of armed groups from southern lebanon , between the litani river and the blue line , the unofficial frontier with israel . both countries have accused each other of violations , while lebanon says israel still holds lebanese territory , after the israeli withdrawal from southern lebanon in 2000 - something israel and the un deny .“ as long as we have occupied land , and we have , we can ’ t stop the [ hezbollah ] resistance . that ' s the problem ,” mr bou habib said . “ that ' s why we want a lasting border [ like ] they have with jordan and egypt . it may not be accompanied by a peace treaty , but there will be peace on the borders .” us envoy amos hochstein and france , which has historic ties with lebanon , have led recent efforts to reduce tensions . hezbollah has said any permanent deal can only be negotiated after the end of the israel - hamas war , but that it will observe in lebanon any ceasefire in gaza . additional reporting by samantha granville , ghaith elsolh and jonathan dunstan