israel will be allowed to compete at the eurovision song contest 2024 after changing the lyrics to its song , organisers have confirmed . eden golan will represent the country at the contest in sweden this may . her original song , october rain , was thought to reference the hamas attacks of 7 october and had been barred for breaking rules on political neutrality . israel ' s public broadcaster agreed to amend the song , now titled hurricane , and will unveil it this weekend . in a statement , the european broadcasting union ( ebu ) - which organises the contest - said earlier : " the ebu can confirm that the official submission from its israeli member kan has been deemed eligible to compete in the eurovision song contest in may . " the contest ' s reference group , its governing board , made the decision to accept the song ' hurricane ' for the upcoming competition after careful scrutiny of the lyrics . " it was agreed that ' hurricane ' met the necessary criteria for participation in accordance with the rules of the competition ." israeli broadcaster kan had previously pledged not to alter the lyrics , but the country ' s president isaac herzog later called for " necessary adjustments " to ensure israel can take part in the contest . the original lyrics of october rain - written in english - were published on kan ' s website last month . they included the lines " they were all good children , every one of them " and " who told you boys don ' t cry / hours and hours / and flowers / life is not a game for the cowards ." on wednesday , belgium ' s french - speaking culture minister benedicte linard called for israel to be banned from eurovision as long as the war in gaza continues . " just like russia has been excluded from competitions and eurovision following its invasion of ukraine , israel should be excluded until it puts an end to its flagrant violations of international law , which are causing thousands of victims , especially children ," she wrote on x . israel insists that its ground offensive against hamas in gaza is being carried out in line with international law . its military has repeatedly said that it goes out of its way to try to avoid harming civilians . ms linard also told parliament on wednesday that she would ask public broadcaster rtbf , which is organising belgium ' s entry to eurovision , to voice the concerns to the ebu . her flemish counterpart , benjamin dalle , said an israeli suspension would be appropriate while so many palestinian civilians were suffering , according to a report by flemish broadcaster vrt . musicians in several countries have called for israel to be suspended from the contest . in december , iceland ' s association of composers and lyricists published a statement saying israel ' s military action in gaza made its participation incompatible with an event " characterised by joy and optimism ". in finland , a petition signed by more than 1 , 400 music industry professionals accused their national broadcaster yle of double standards , saying it was among the first to demand the ban on russia after its invasion of ukraine in 2022 . the ebu soon after banned russia from participating . before he was selected to represent the uk , olly alexander also endorsed a statement accusing israel of genocide . an israeli official later told the uk ' s daily telegraph newspaper the arguments were " absurd " and accused alexander and his fellow signatories of " anti - israel bias ". israel has won the eurovision song contest four times before . its military launched an air and ground campaign in gaza after hamas ' s attacks on israel on 7 october , in which around 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 30 , 800 people have been killed in gaza since then , the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry says .