israel ' s war cabinet has met to discuss its response to iran ' s unprecedented drone and missile attack . officials did not make public whether a decision had been reached . israel ' s allies have strongly condemned iran ' s actions , but urged benjamin netanyahu ' s government to show restraint . while iran has signalled it considers the matter closed , the israeli military ' s chief of staff said the attack would not go unanswered . " look , as we look forward , we weigh our steps , and this launch of so many missiles , cruise missiles , uavs [ unmanned aerial vehicles ] to the territory of the state of israel will be met with a response ," lt gen herzi halevi said . he did not specify a course of action , or give a timescale . former cia head david petraeus told bbc radio 4 ' s world tonight programme that washington does not want to risk the wellbeing of the global economy with any israeli retaliation against iran . gen petraeus , who as a us army general also commanded forces in iraq and afghanistan , said the iranian attack was a " very big deal ", and that the west had to understand how significant this was for israel . " the challenge now , of course , is that there are somewhat different perspectives on what to do next . if , for some reason , the brent crude prices spike , or if there is some kind of freedom of navigation issue in the gulf . and there is already some concern over iran taking an oil tanker the other day ." gen petraeus , who is now retired , said the debate inside the israeli government was about how to formulate a response that would show israeli deterrence without " ratcheting up the escalation any further ". he added that israel had a number of asymmetric options that could allow it to respond without increasing tension . lt gen halevi was speaking from nevatim air base in southern israel , which sustained damage in saturday ' s overnight attack but was said by israel to be " still functioning ". tehran said the operation was retaliation for a 1 april strike on its consulate in syria , which killed senior iranian revolutionary guards commanders . the israeli military said more than 300 drones and missiles were launched at israel . it said almost all were brought down by its forces , with support from the us , uk , france and other countries , before reaching their targets . no deaths were reported and israel said the damage was limited . world leaders have urged restraint amid concerns about a major escalation in tensions in the middle east . us president joe biden spoke to mr netanyahu following the launch of the iranian attack and reaffirmed " america ' s ironclad commitment to the security of israel ". but on sunday , the us told israel it would not join in any counter - strike on iran , according to a senior white house official . " we ' re committed to a ceasefire that will bring the hostages home and prevent the conflict spreading more than it already has ," mr biden said on monday , referring to the war between israel and hamas in the gaza strip . the war began when hamas - led gunmen attacked israeli communities on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people - mostly civilians - and taking about 250 others to gaza as hostages . israel responded with an aerial and ground campaign , and more than 33 , 000 people - mostly women and children - have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health authority . addressing iran - israel tensions in the uk parliament on monday , british prime minister rishi sunak called on " all sides " to " show restraint ". he added that he would speak to mr netanyahu to express solidarity and discuss how to prevent " further escalation ". separately on monday , violence continued to surge in the occupied west bank following the killing of an israeli teenager , benjamin achimeir . the 14 - year - old had taken a flock of sheep out to graze from a settler outpost near ramallah when he went missing on friday last week . the israel defense forces later found his body . the israeli government has said he was the victim of a " terrorist attack ". the us has condemned retaliatory violence by israeli settlers , which it said included the killings of two palestinians - jihad abu aliya , 25 , and omar ahmad abdulghani hamed , 17 . on monday , israel said it would investigate the killings of two more palestinians near the city of nablus , apparently by israeli settlers .