us secretary of state antony blinken has said israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has " reaffirmed his commitment " to a gaza ceasefire plan , and that if it does not progress hamas will be to blame . mr blinken reiterated his call for hamas to accept the plan as outlined by president biden 11 days ago . he was speaking a day after holding talks with mr netanyahu in jerusalem . he said the onus was on " one guy " hiding " ten storeys underground in gaza " to make the casting vote , referring to hamas leader yahya sinwar . mr netanyahu has not publicly endorsed what mr biden outlined nor said whether it matches an israeli ceasefire proposal on which mr biden ' s statement was based . mr blinken described as a " hopeful sign " hamas ' s response to a resolution passed by the un security council on monday supporting what mr biden had announced . the resolution noted that israel had accepted what mr biden had presented and called on hamas to do so as well . hamas issued a statement on tuesday welcoming " what was included " in the resolution . but mr blinken said hamas ' s response was not conclusive , adding that that " what counts " is what is said by the hamas leadership in gaza , " and that ' s what we don ' t have ". if the proposal did not proceed then it was “ on them ”, he said . after months of stuttering ceasefire talks behind closed doors , mr biden publicly announced last month what he said was an israeli " roadmap to an enduring ceasefire and the release of all hostages " which he then went on to outline . the proposal involves an initial six week ceasefire with hamas releasing some hostages in exchange for israel releasing an undefined number of palestinian prisoners . a second phase would see the remaining hostages released by hamas and a total withdrawal of israeli forces from gaza as part of a “ permanent ” ceasefire , but the latter would still be subject to negotiations . mr blinken ' s trip is part of an intense diplomatic effort by the us to try to push the sides into making progress on the proposal , but clinching an agreement faces major obstacles . mr netanyahu has acknowledged his war cabinet has authorised the plan but has not voiced unequivocally support for it . far - right members of his cabinet have threatened to quit his coalition and trigger its collapse if the deal goes forward , seeing it as surrender to hamas . meanwhile , hamas is likely to seek clear guarantees that the proposal would lead to the complete withdrawal of israeli forces and a permanent end to the war . so far , it has yet to formally respond to the plan . the actual israeli proposal - reportedly lengthier than the summary presented by mr biden - has not been made public and it is unclear whether it varies from what the president conveyed in his statement on 31 may . it was presented to hamas days prior to mr biden ' s speech . the israeli proposal was agreed upon by israel ' s three - man war cabinet and has not been disclosed to the wider government . some far - right ministers have already made clear they oppose it . the biden administration is trying to leverage popular pressure as part of its campaign to bounce the sides into progress on the proposal . as mr blinken met israeli officials in tel aviv on tuesday , protesters outside his hotel held american flags calling for an agreement . many held pictures of hostages and chanted : " sos , usa ", and " we trust you , blinken , seal a deal ". vicki cohen , the mother of nimrod cohen , 19 , an israeli soldier who was kidnapped by hamas on 7 october , held a banner showing his picture . she told the bbc : " we come here to ask blinken and the usa government to help us , to save us from our government . our prime minister doesn ' t want to bring our loved ones back , we need their help to pressure our government ." mr blinken later spoke with ms cohen and other families of hostages , including americans , during a brief interaction with them outside the hotel . " you ’ re going to be here every day , we ' re going to be here every day ," he told them . the secretary of state continued the whirlwind diplomatic visit , flying by us military plane to the jordanian capital , amman , and from there by helicopter to the dead sea for a conference of arab leaders calling for greater aid access into war - ravaged gaza . the ride involved five jordanian air force helicopters carrying mr blinken , his officials and the bbc among the travelling press pool . the fleet headed west , flying low , to the town of swemeh on the shores of the dead sea , sitting directly across the water from the occupied west bank . in a speech at the conference , mr blinken said that israel had taken " some important steps " to ensure aid was delivered into gaza , but he insisted that it " can and must do more ". he also announced $ 404 million in new aid for palestinians , urging other countries to also " step up " assistance . " the horror must stop ," un secretary general antonio guterres told the conference . " the speed and scale of the carnage and killing in gaza is beyond anything in my years as secretary general ," he said . un humanitarian coordination chief martin griffiths described the gaza war as a " stain on our humanity " and appealed for $ 2 . 5 billion to meet the humanitarian needs of palestinians in gaza from april until december . the war began after hamas attacked israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 251 others back to gaza as hostages . the hamas - run health ministry in gaza says more than 37 , 000 people have been killed in the israeli offensive since then .