israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu has reaffirmed his determination to launch an offensive in rafah , defying international criticism . the city is crammed with some 1 . 5 million palestinians from other parts of gaza seeking refuge . his comments come as the german chancellor , on a middle east trip , restated his opposition to the plan . but mr netanyahu said " no international pressure will stop israel " from achieving all of its war aims . " if we stop the war now before achieving all of its goals , the meaning is that israel had lost the war and we will not allow this ," mr netanyahu told a meeting of his cabinet . he said israel must be able to continue its war , with the aims of eliminating hamas , releasing all hostages and ensuring gaza " no longer poses a threat ". " to do this , we will also operate in rafah ." mr netanyahu said the offensive in city at the southern tip of the gaza strip " will happen " and will take " several weeks ". he also lashed out at his critics , saying to them : " is your memory so short ? " so quickly you forgot about [ 7 october ], the worst massacre committed against jews since the holocaust ." those attacks , in which about 1 , 200 people were killed and more than 250 were taken hostage from israel , sparked the current war . the hamas - run health ministry in gaza says more than 31 , 400 have been killed . the israeli leader met german chancellor olaf scholz on sunday . speaking to reporters in a joint news conference mr scholz said he spoke to mr netanyahu about the need to provide those in gaza with " comprehensive humanitarian aid supplies ". he stressed that conditions for aid distribution " must be urgently and massively improved ". he said a hostage deal for israelis taken by hamas on 7 october was necessary alongside a longer - lasting ceasefire in gaza . the german leader said he told his israeli counterpart a " humanitarian logic " should be considered ahead of a ground offensive in rafah . to which mr netanyahu said : "[ israel ' s ] goal in eliminating the remaining terrorist battalions in rafah goes hand in hand with enabling the civilian population to leave rafah ". " it ' s not something that we will do , while keeping the population locked in place ," the israeli leader added . israel ' s plans have been heavily criticised by the international community , with the un and us also warning that a full - scale assault in rafah could be disastrous . tedros adhanom ghebreyesus , the head of the un ' s world health organization , on friday appealed to israel " in the name of humanity " not to launch such an attack on gaza ' s southern - most city . the us says it has not yet seen a detailed israeli plan for rafah , and president joe biden has warned israel against expanding its invasion in the city , calling it a " red line ". the relationship between israel and the us is becoming ever more fractious . but israel ' s prime minister believes he still has the pro - israel american lobby behind him . the risk , though , is that as the us election draws closer , the biden administration could decide to placate americans frustrated by its support for israel , and begin to limit military aid . nevertheless , mr netanyahu ' s office approved plans for a military operation in rafah on friday , adding that the army was preparing for the evacuation of civilians . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said it planned to move displaced palestinians in gaza to what it called " humanitarian islands " in the middle of the strip . it is not clear what the " islands " will look like , or how they will operate . moving an estimated 1 . 4 million gazans from rafah would take time - and troops , and israel ' s military is already stretched in combat and aid distribution . doing so would require finding places of safety in the wasteland of gaza , and providing food and water , so it could still take time for an offensive there to start - if it does at all . speaking in jordan earlier , mr scholz referenced the need for a truce " that lasts longer ". ceasefire talks were expected to resume in qatar in the coming days . israel had planned to send a delegation to join the negotiations , but ministers were yet to agree on its mandate . israel has faced mounting criticism for the number of civilian casualties in gaza , as well as shortages of aid that have fuelled fears of famine . on thursday , us senate majority leader chuck schumer called for israel to hold elections to replace mr netanyahu . the prime minister slammed the comments as " totally inappropriate ", and said they should be working instead to bring down the " hamas tyranny ". this appears to be vintage benjamin netanyahu : hitting back at critics and digging in amidst mounting pressure at home and abroad . he is increasingly hemmed in : chided by members of his own government ; increasingly reviled by families of the hostages ; and excoriated by western allies who have run out of patience . the israeli prime minister appears determined to pursue the war , pushed by his more bellicose far - right ministers , and believes that despite all the criticism here , a traumatised israel still backs the offensive in gaza . most israelis do still support an offensive to crush hamas , albeit while also getting the hostages back . but it ' s also possible that he ' s talking tough on rafah to up the pressure on hamas before the new ceasefire talks in doha , to which israel will send a delegation . and he knows that when eventually the war ends , so could his political career .