the foreign office is investigating a claim by hamas that a british - israeli hostage has died in gaza . hamas , proscribed as a terrorist group by the uk government , claims nadav popplewell died of wounds sustained in an israeli airstrike more than a month ago . mr popplewell , 51 , was seized with his mother channah peri on 7 october when fighters crossed the border fence and launched deadly attacks in israel . the israeli military is yet to comment . a foreign office spokesperson said it was urgently seeking more information on the matter . it added that the department ' s thoughts " are with his family at this extremely distressing time ." in a brief statement via the hostages and missing families forum , the family of mr popplewell asked media organisations not to publish footage of him released by hamas on saturday , which shows him in captivity with a black eye . speaking to the bbc ' s laura kuenssberg on sunday morning , foreign secretary david cameron confirmed that he had seen the video , but gave no further updates on the investigations . " we don ' t want to say anything until we have better information ," lord cameron said . he described hamas as " callous ", to release the video and " play with the family ' s emotions in that way ". mr popplewell ' s sister ayelet svatitzky told the bbc last october how gunmen had attacked the kibbutz in southern israel where they lived , killing her older brother roi . on the day of the attack , ms svatitzky said she received two pictures , sent by the attackers from her mother ' s phone , showing the pair sitting in her mother ' s living room . underneath was written " hamas " in english . hours later , a third picture was posted on her mother ' s facebook showing them with an armed hamas gunman in the corner . ms svatitzky ' s mother was released last november during a temporary ceasefire agreed between hamas and israel . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 252 others were taken hostage , according to israeli authorities . more than 34 , 900 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry . israel says 128 hostages are unaccounted for .