police arrested 33 people at george washington university ( gw ) early wednesday after officers moved to clear a pro - palestinian encampment on campus . washington dc police told the bbc that protestors were arrested for assaults on a police officer and unlawful entry . university students had been inside the encampment since 25 april . house republicans cancelled scheduled testimony by mayor muriel bowser following the arrests after pressuring dc officials to clear the protests . the police operation came a week after six republican members of the house of representatives oversight committee visited the gw protest encampment and called on officials to arrest protesters involved . wednesday ' s move to clear the encampment was made ahead of a planned appearance by ms bowser and metropolitan police department chief pamela smith before the house oversight committee on the city ' s handling of the unrest . in a statement , the chair of the house oversight committee , republican representative james comer , announced that appearance was being cancelled and said he was " pleased that the potential oversight hearing led to swift action by mayor bowser ". according to a report on the arrests by gw hatchet , the university ' s independent student - run newspaper : " officers gave their third and final warning to demonstrators to move at about 03 : 30 local time , saying all who remained in u - yard and the stretch of h street in front of the plaza would be arrested ." the newspaper reported that some protestors who refused to leave were pepper sprayed by police . in a statement , the university said police " conducted an orderly and safe operation to disperse the demonstrators from the illegal encampment on the gw ' s university yard ". they added there were no reports of serious injuries during the arrests . previously , despite gw ' s efforts to offer an alternative protest site , the encampment remained . university officials say they are unsure how many of the demonstrators were students . " while the university is committed to protecting students ' rights to free expression , the encampment had evolved into an unlawful activity , with participants in direct violation of multiple university policies and city regulations ," a previous gw statement said . tensions had grown in recent days after police removed a large palestinian flag that demonstrators had raised above a campus building . the university called the flag ' s hoisting an " aggressive act of lawlessness ". metro police told the bbc there has been " a gradual escalation in the volatility " of the protest and , as a result , officers moved in . " therefore , this morning , working closely with the gw administration and police , mpd moved to disperse the demonstrators from the gw campus and surrounding streets ," the statement added . gw said it remains open and operating as normal , but additional security personnel have been deployed to university yard and the surrounding area . the yard will remain closed until the end of commencement ceremonies on 19 may , the university added . there have been heated demonstrations at a number of universities across the country against the war in gaza . since the 7 october attack by hamas and israel ' s retaliatory assault , students have launched rallies , sit - ins , fasts and , most recently , encampments against the war . according to a bbc tally , there have been pro - palestine protests at 45 states and washington dc since the demonstrations started at columbia university in new york on 17 april . they are demanding that their schools , many with massive endowments , financially divest from israel . many also want their universities to end academic relationships with israeli institutions . previously , president joe biden said people had the right to protest but not the right to cause chaos . but , mr biden warned on tuesday the threat of antisemitism is growing in the us , including on college campuses , joining a heated american debate about jewish security , zionism , free speech and support for israel , in the country with the largest jewish population after israel . addressing a bipartisan audience at the us holocaust memorial museum ' s annual commemoration , mr biden said : " this hatred ( of jews ) continues to lie deep in the hearts of too many people in the world and requires our continued vigilance and outspokenness ," biden said . " now here we are , not 75 years later , but just seven and a half months later , and people are already forgetting ... that hamas unleashed this terror ," he added . " i have not forgotten , nor have you . and we will not forget ."