on the morning of 7 october , amal alabadla was heavily pregnant and snuggled up in bed with 18 - month - old noah when they were woken by a wall of sound . hamas had launched its attack on israel , firing thousands of rockets over the border . israeli jet fighters launched retaliatory attacks soon after . in khan younis , amal had no idea what was going on . she was anxious and terrified and , eight months pregnant , she started bleeding heavily . she had to get to hospital but her husband was working outside gaza , in the occupied west bank , and she was alone . after a three - hour wait , the first taxi driver could only take her part of the way . the streets were full of people who didn ' t know what to do or where to go . all the time , she was bleeding . when amal , an architect , got to the hospital she was sent for a caesarean section immediately . mohamed was born into a world irrevocably changed . since then his mother has been in a daily battle to keep him and his two - year - old brother alive . as with 90 % of people in gaza , amal and her family haven ' t had a healthy , balanced diet in months . the problem is particularly acute in the north , where 90 % of children and 95 % of pregnant and breastfeeding women face severe food shortages . earlier this month the world health organization said children were dying of starvation in northern gaza after visiting hospitals there . but even in the south finding baby formula is a struggle . in many of the emergencies the un responds to , the rate of breastfeeding is high . but in gaza , as in the uk , only about half of women breastfeed beyond six weeks . " as soon as the conflict started we knew this was going to be a challenge ," says anu nayaran , unicef ' s senior adviser on child nutrition in emergencies . " if you are not breastfeeding your child , you ' re in the middle of a conflict , you are not going to suddenly be able to start feeding your infant ," she says . " you are wholly reliant on baby formula ." amal managed to breastfeed mohamed for a month but then found she wasn ' t producing enough milk . " i was afraid and nervous all the time . i wasn ' t focusing on good food for me . so i didn ' t have milk for him ," she says . " but i tried ." as the war progressed it got harder . gaza ' s water system is barely functioning . most new mothers are dehydrated , which hampers their ability to produce milk . " people are getting less than two litres of water a day and that ' s barely enough to drink , let alone wash ," says ms nayaran . not enough baby formula is getting into gaza . there is little left on the market . although the un has responded by sending it in as aid , the number of trucks entering gaza is much lower than before the outbreak of war . meanwhile the fighting and the breakdown of social order mean convoys inside gaza have been attacked and looted . israel denies impeding the entry of aid to gaza and blames aid agencies on the ground for failing to distribute what does get in . but on friday australian foreign minister penny wong said there were large stocks of food waiting to go in to gaza , " but there is no way to move it across the border into gaza and deliver it at scale without israel ' s co - operation , and we implore israel to allow more aid into gaza now ". because of the lack of clean water , unicef is sending pre - mixed baby formula to gaza . it is safer to use but harder to transport in large quantities . three days into recovery from her c - section , amal was displaced for the first time , forced to evacuate her mother ' s home . the fourth time they were displaced they left in the night , two hours before the place was bombed . " i couldn ' t take the milk and diapers with me because they destroyed the whole building to the ground ," she said . amal initially took her children to rafah , thinking it would be safer , but returned to the khan younis area . she couldn ' t find the things she needed in rafah . mohamed has a dairy allergy ; ordinary formula makes him sick . she found one tub of non - dairy formula but it was $ 40 (£ 31 ), ten times the price before the war . by mid - january the family were living on a patch of scrubland outside khan younis and amal had only two days of baby formula left . at three months old , mohamed could eat nothing else . " i ' ll dig the mountains to provide it ," she texted . " my baby needs it ." she sent her brothers to search in the rubble of buildings but they came back empty - handed . she decided to go to rafah to search the shops and markets again . that journey would usually take just 20 minutes by car , but israeli forces were now active on the route . on the way they encountered three tanks ; one fired in their direction with the shot landing near the car . the driver reversed and they escaped . panicked and desperate to get back to her children , she didn ' t manage to find any formula . fighting in khan younis intensified in february and the noise from the explosions was especially difficult for noah . he has epilepsy and the bombing makes his seizures worse . his epilepsy medication has run out and amal can ' t find it anywhere . the family have little food and less water . amal has been boiling it over the fire to try to get it clean . " it ' s still dirty but i ' m doing my best ," she said . about 24 , 000 children have been born since the beginning of this war , according to estimates by the who . gaza ' s entire population is facing crisis levels of hunger but the risk is especially acute for young children . " children can get sick very fast ," says anu nayaran at unicef . they have fewer stores of fat and muscle and can slip quickly into acute malnutrition ." even when they are treated there are long - term consequences . malnutrition can lead to higher rates of diabetes , heart disease and even obesity in later life . a study of adults in the democratic republic of congo , who were treated for severe acute malnutrition as children , found it had a long - term effect on their cognitive development , negatively affecting educational achievement and self - esteem . amal has given up on finding formula for now . but mohamed would not go hungry , yet . she found a mother in the same area who is breastfeeding him alongside her own baby . amal was paying her with some baby clothes and a little money . they were camping on a patch of sand in the coastal area of al - mawasi in tents made from planks and rubber sheets , eating canned food and bread from donated flour if they could get it and cooking with foraged wood . al - mawasi had been designated as a " humanitarian area " by the israeli military earlier on in the war . even that set - up would not last long . last sunday they were displaced yet again when their camp came under attack . the tent next to amal ' s was shelled and four people were killed . " it ' s a miracle we are alive ," she texted . like many other gazans she has now resorted to online crowdfunding to try to raise the thousands of dollars her family will need to pay brokers to get on a list of people approved to leave gaza for egypt and safety . one evening amal sent the last picture she took of her life before the war , dated the night of 6 october . noah was lying on the soft carpet , propped up on a big cushion , watching cartoons on tv and swigging milk from his bottle . he ' s kicking his legs in the air under the soft glow of fairy lights on the living room wall . he fell asleep tucked up with his mother that night in a world far away from the dust , dirt and brutality that mark their life now . " i ' m trying to do what is possible ," said amal . " i just need to rescue my kids from this horrific war ."