reporters always carry some kind of baggage with them when they head off to cover a story - whether it ' s the tools of their trade , a camera or a microphone , or something less tangible , such as memories of a past encounter or story . it was on a recent deployment that the bbc ' s middle east analyst sebastian usher suddenly noticed that the often unwanted companion that seemingly always accompanied him on trips abroad had suddenly gone missing . i got back from a reporting trip to jerusalem , with all the usual highs and lows , and with the backdrop of one of the world ' s most utterly enthralling cities . and i realised on my return that something that habitually accompanies me on such trips had been missing . something that i have always somewhat resented , yet also jealously guarded as an essential part of who i am . my stutter . even after all these years it is almost always there , just giving a little wave as i prepare to do the umpteenth live interview . it ' s mostly very well - behaved these days and surprisingly flexible , even generous . at one time , it would let me know that a certain word - say , " syria " - was a no - go . that was fair and mostly allowed me a way around it . it had no objections , for instance , to " syrian territory " or the " syrian region ". having to find fresh phrases can be an asset for a reporter . so it was perfectly liveable - with and to be honest - after a lifetime of listening to that little voice - quite companionable . but high up on the windswept bureau balcony in jerusalem , the voice was silent . there have been times like this before , and it has always returned . but who knows - this time it might be for good . and it makes me feel a little bereft . when i look back , i can ' t really remember how it started but i do know that it was - to me at least - a relatively unobtrusive part of my childhood . i was lucky to have a relatively sheltered , privileged upbringing where if it was noted at all , it was seen as a vaguely charming mark of distinction . a musty old classics teacher would tell me about the great athenian rhetorician demosthenes standing on the beach with stones in his mouth to cure his stutter . it didn ' t really appeal . any time there was some distance that needed to be bridged - like speaking on a phone or asking for a bus ticket - it could be a problem . anything too formal , too . and i found early on that it was really a stammer , not a stutter . words didn ' t fracture and become staccato . they simply sat in the path like great unblinking toads , slyly preventing anything from getting past . but a stutter always sounded classier to me , so i ' ve stuck with that . it ' s been everywhere with me - at school , university , work . it ' s been quite remarkably even - handed in showing up in formal or casual situations . and utterly capricious , suddenly coming up with an entirely new syllable or consonant to place out of bounds . people would ask : is it nerves ? are you very anxious ? which would of course give me anxiety - so i never mentioned it . this meant that if suddenly , halfway through a sentence , i was struck dumb , people would react as if it were some biblical curse . once in jordan after a 12 - hour bus journey through the endless scrubland from riyadh , i was suddenly unable to sound out a single word , a great imaginary boulder having materialised on my tongue through the night . across the middle east , beyond the endless strife and complication , certain things were at least clear to me - " lebanon " was no problem , " iraq " and " iran " were easy - " israel " too - " egypt " a doddle - but " tunisia ", " tel aviv " and " turkey " were temperamental , withdrawing access at a moment ' s notice . i would try to avoid listening to a fellow correspondent on the same story before going on air , in case my inner voice should triumphantly extricate the key word from their report and place it in quarantine . that voice has however become ever more forgiving and forbearing down the years ; now it is mostly a whisper of itself . but it ' s never gone away - or so i thought . maybe i was just holding onto it as a precious fragment of a long - lost self - a sense that there was always something latent and untapped that lay beyond the surface . a connection - semi secret - to entire worlds of people that were gone . as she sank ever deeper into alzheimer ' s , my mother , who had helped make it so that i never felt it a burden or a hindrance , simply denied outright that my stutter had ever existed - a last link broken with the past . perhaps it ' s her gentleness and elegant humour that the trace of sudden silence on my tongue still keeps alive . or did . so , the next time i am lost for words , it may simply be because there are none left to convey what is happening in gaza , israel and beyond .