sabreen was dead before she could look into the baby ' s eyes or hold her . the young mother had carried her child through seven - and - a - half months of pregnancy . they were days and nights of constant fear , but sabreen hoped the family ' s luck would hold until the war ended . that luck vanished in the roar and fire of an explosion in the hour before midnight on 20 april . the israelis dropped a bomb onto the al - sakani family home in rafah where sabreen , along with her husband and the couple ' s other daughter - three - year - old malak - were asleep . sabreen suffered extensive injuries and her husband and malak were killed , but the baby was still alive in her mother ' s womb when rescue workers reached the site . they rushed sabreen to hospital , where doctors performed an emergency caesarean section to deliver the child . sabreen could not be saved but doctors worked to resuscitate the baby , gently tapping her chest to stimulate breathing . air was pumped into her lungs . " she was born in severe respiratory distress ," said dr mohammed salama , head of the emergency neo - natal unit at emirati hospital in rafah . but the baby - who weighed just 1 . 4kg ( 3 . 1 lbs ) - survived the ordeal of her birth . the doctor wrote the words " the baby of the martyr sabreen al - sakani " on a piece of tape and attached it to her body . she was then placed in an incubator . " we can say there is some progress in her health condition ," dr salama said . " but the situation is still at risk . this respiratory distress syndrome is originally caused by premature birth . this child should have been in the mother ' s womb at this time , but she was deprived of this right ." the doctor expects her to remain in hospital for up to a month . " after that we will see about her leavingâ €¦ here is the biggest tragedy . even if this child survives , she was born an orphan ," dr salama said . there were no parents left to name the baby . her dead sister malak had wanted her to be called rouh , which means soul or spirit in arabic . but she has been called sabreen , in memory of her mother . surviving family members gathered at the hospital , caught between the practicalities of creating a new family life for orphaned baby sabreen and their grief and anger . the baby ' s maternal grandmother , mirvat al - sakani , spoke of the " injustice and slander " of what had happened to people who " have nothing to do with anything ". " my daughter was pregnant and had a foetus in her body , and her daughter is with her , and my son was also with them ," she said . " my son became body parts and they have not found him yet . they do not recognise himâ €¦ why are they targeting them ? we don ' t know why , how . we do not knowâ €¦ they only target women and children ." the baby ' s uncle , rami al - sheikh , said her father had worked with him as a barber . " what ' s their fault , a whole family wiped from the civil registry and the only survivor is a small baby girl ?" he asked . " these are ordinary civilians ." sabreen ' s paternal grandmother , ahalam al - kurdi , promised that she would raise the child . " she is my love , my soul . she is a memory of her father . i will take care of her ." the hamas - run health ministry in gaza says that of 34 , 000 people killed in gaza since the war began on 7 october , at least two - thirds are women and children . israel launched its offensive after about 1 , 200 israelis and foreigners - mostly civilians - were killed and 253 others were taken back to gaza as hostages , according to israeli tallies . the israeli military insists it does not target civilians and has accused hamas of using the population as a human shield . the israeli air strikes on rafah on the night of 20 april also killed 15 children from the extended al - aal family . the father of several of the children , abed al - aal , said his identity had been erased as all of his children and his wife were killed . " show me one man among them . they are all children and women ," he said . an israeli military statement sent to the bbc after the strikes said : " at the given times , the idf struck several military targets of the terrorist organisations in gaza including military compounds , launch posts and armed terrorists ." there are now an estimated 1 . 4 million people crowded into rafah having been told by the israeli defence forces to move south to safety earlier in the war . but in recent days , speculation has grown that israeli forces will enter rafah soon to continue the fight against hamas . the us has appealed to israel to adopt a targeted approach rather than launch a full - scale invasion of rafah , which might precipitate an even greater humanitarian crisis .