if diplomats have groundhog days , when they are condemned to reliving the same 24 hours , perhaps antony blinken , the us secretary of state , felt a certain weariness as his jet approached the middle east on his latest trip . it is his eighth diplomatic tour of the region in the eight months since the hamas attacks on israel on 7 october last year . the politics of trying to negotiate an end to the war in gaza and an exchange of israeli hostages for palestinian prisoners were already complicated . they are more tangled than ever now that the israeli opposition leader benny gantz has resigned from the war cabinet of prime minister benjamin netanyahu , along with his political ally gadi eisenkot . both men are retired generals who led the israel defense forces ( idf ) as chiefs of staff . without benny gantz , the americans have lost their favourite contact in the cabinet . now he ’ s back in opposition , mr gantz wants new elections - he is the pollsters ’ favourite to be the next prime minister - but mr netanyahu is safe as long as he can preserve the coalition that gives him 64 votes in the 120 - member israeli parliament . that depends on keeping the support of the leaders of two ultranationalist factions . they are itamar ben - gvir , the national security minister , and bezalel smotrich , the finance minister . that is the point at which secretary of state blinken ’ s mission collides with israeli politics . president joe biden believes that the time has come to end the war in gaza . mr blinken ’ s job is to try to make that happen . but messrs ben - gvir and smotrich have threatened to bring down the netanyahu government if he agrees to any ceasefire until they are satisfied that hamas has been eliminated . they are extreme jewish nationalists , who want the war to continue until no trace of hamas remains . they believe that gaza , like all the territory between the mediterranean sea and the river jordan , is jewish land that should be settled by jews . palestinians , they argue , could be encouraged to leave gaza " voluntarily ". antony blinken is in the middle east to try to stop the latest ceasefire plan from going the way of all the others . three ceasefire resolutions in the un security council were vetoed by the us , but now joe biden is ready for a deal . on 31 may , the president made a speech urging hamas to accept what he said was a new israeli proposal to end the war in gaza . it was a three - part deal - which has now been backed by a un resolution - starting with a six - week ceasefire , a " surge " of humanitarian aid into gaza , and the exchange of some israeli hostages for palestinian prisoners . the deal would progress to the release of all the hostages , a permanent “ cessation of hostilities ” and ultimately the huge job of rebuilding gaza . israelis should no longer fear hamas , he said , because it was no longer able to repeat 7 october . president biden and his advisers knew there was trouble ahead . hamas insists it will only agree to a ceasefire that guarantees an israeli withdrawal from gaza and an end to the war . the destruction and civilian death inflicted by israel in nuseirat refugee camp in gaza during the raid to free four hostages last week can only have strengthened that resolve . the hamas - run health authorities in gaza say that 274 palestinians were killed during the raid . the idf says the number was less than 100 . mr biden also recognised that some powerful forces in israel would object . " i ' ve urged the leadership in israel to stand behind this deal ," he said in the speech . " regardless of whatever pressure comes ." the pressure came quickly , from messrs ben gvir and smotrich . they are senior government ministers , viscerally opposed to the deal that joe biden presented . it made no difference to them that the deal was approved by the war cabinet , as they are not members . as expected , they threatened to topple the netanyahu coalition if he agreed to the deal . neither hamas nor israel have publicly committed to the deal that president biden laid out . he accepted that the language of parts of it needed to be finalised . the ambiguity in parts of the proposal might in other conflicts , between other belligerents , allow room for diplomatic manoeuvre . but that would require a shared realisation that the time had come to make a deal , that more war would not bring any benefit . there is no sign that the hamas leader in gaza , yahya sinwar , is at that point . he seems determined to stick the course he has followed since 7 october . some reports out of gaza said that palestinians in the ruins of nuseirat camp were swearing at hamas as well as israel for disregarding their lives . the bbc cannot confirm that , as like other international news organisations it is not allowed by israel and egypt to enter gaza , except under rare and highly supervised trips with the israeli military . it seems clear though , that vast numbers of palestinian dead have strengthened , not weakened the resilience of hamas . for them , survival of their group and its leaders equals victory . they will focus on the fact that the killing of more than 37 , 000 palestinians , mostly civilians – according to the health ministry in gaza – have brought israel into deep disrepute . it faces a case alleging genocide at the international court of justice , and applications at the international criminal court for arrest warrants for benjamin netanyahu and israel ’ s defence minister yoav gallant . on the israeli side , prime minister netanyahu has lost two members of the war cabinet , messrs gantz and eisenkot , who wanted a pause in the war to allow negotiations to free hostages . he is more exposed , without the political insulation they provided , to the hardliners , messrs ben - gvir and smotrich . perhaps antony blinken will urge him to call their bluff , to make the deal and satisfy millions of israelis who want the hostages back before more of them are killed . mr netanyahu might then have no choice other than to risk his government by gambling on an election . defeat will bring forward commissions of enquiry that will examine whether he bears responsibility for the political , intelligence and military failures that allowed hamas to break into israel eight months ago . or benjamin netanyahu might default to the techniques of procrastination and propaganda that he has perfected over all his years as israel ’ s longest - serving prime minister . if in doubt , play for time , and push arguments harder than ever . on 24 july , he will return to one of his favourite pulpits , when he addresses a joint session of the us congress in washington dc . something better , for him , might emerge .