three rusty water - trucks stand at the edge of kibbutz malkiya , on israel ’ s border with lebanon ; little bigger than a family car , they look like something out of an old cartoon . a collection of industrial leaf - blowers is stacked nearby .“ this is all we have ,” resident dean sweetland explains . “ we have just these - and the leaf - blowers - to blow the fire back onto the dead areas .” dean , a londoner who moved to the kibbutz eight years ago , is one of a dozen residents left to tackle recent bushfires in the area , sparked by hezbollah rockets from lebanon .“ we ’ re on our own ,” he says . “ the flames can be six metres tall . sometimes you just can ’ t get near it .” he gestures to the leaf - blowers standing in the sun .“ and we ’ re fighting it with gardening tools .” over the past few days , footage of the fires has made headlines in israel . the blazes , triggered when hezbollah rockets hit dry undergrowth in soaring summer temperatures , have burned through 3 , 500 acres , according to forest administrators . monday was “ a battle day ”, said israel ’ s fire and rescue commissioner , eyal caspi , with 94 fires burning across these northern hills . most are now out , or under control , but rockets fly over homes here several times a day and each one carries the potential to spark a new blaze . and there are places at the moment where firefighters don ’ t go .“ there is a war here and in a war zone , operations are different ,” mr caspi told israel ’ s kan news radio station .“ in certain areas , where there is no immediate danger to human life ... where the army knows that the firefighters can get hurt , it gives us the instruction not to enter . and i back it up .” from the back terrace of his home - built from shipping containers , a few hundred meters from the lebanese border - dean sweetland points out the plumes of grey smoke rising from the hills nearby , to the sound of distant bombs and fighter jets . most of the other residents of kibbutz malkiya were evacuated in the days following the hamas attacks on israel on 7 october , when its hezbollah allies in lebanon began firing on communities here . both armed groups are labelled as terrorist organisations by israel , the us and others . but dean , who used to serve in the british army , stayed on . he is part of a group of residents from border communities who race to put out the fires that fire crews are blocked from accessing . the israeli army , he says , is not a solution .“ especially when we ’ re in the line of sight for hezbollah , they ’ ll see the soldiers and send a rocket ,” he says . “ we hear the drones when we ’ re putting the fires out .” in the early days of the war , dean says , tanks were parked around the kibbutz and attracting a lot of hezbollah fire . they ’ ve now left , and in between the bombardments , the kibbutz is peaceful . but dean and his neighbours feel the emptiness . families evacuated eight months ago are still living in temporary accommodation further south . the blazes here are a vivid reminder that the israeli government ’ s promise to secure these northern areas and get residents back home is still unfulfilled .“ we feel like we ’ re the forgotten people ,” dean says . “ they don ’ t care about the north .” the attitude among many in the country , he says , is “ let it burn ”.“ i think we have to take out hezbollah for 10km , maybe more ,” says yariv rozenberg , the deputy commander of kibbutz malkiya ’ s civil defence team .“ you can ’ t kill them all , and they won ’ t leave from here . but we need more army here , and we need to go back to our life – to bring our families back .” as the months go by , pressure is mounting on israel ’ s government to resolve this conflict and get people home . israel ’ s far - right security minister this week called for israel to burn “ all hezbollah strongholds : destruction , war !” others have been more measured . war with hezbollah would be a much more difficult and dangerous conflict than the one israel is fighting in gaza . hezbollah ’ s deputy chief , sheikh naim qassem , told the al jazeera television station that the group was not seeking to widen the conflict but that any israeli expansion of the war would be met “ with devastation ”. before a meeting of the war cabinet to discuss the situation on tuesday night , the israeli military ’ s chief of staff , lt gen herzi halevi , said the country was “ approaching the point where a decision will have to be made ”. the armed forces , he said , were “ prepared and ready to move to an offensive ”. prime minister benjamin netanyahu , visiting troops and firefighters in the northern town of kiryat shmona on wednesday , said the government was prepared for “ a very strong action in the north .”“ one way or another we will restore security to the north ,” he said . many believe a ceasefire in gaza would help cool the situation further north .“ gaza is the key ,” dean says . “ it needs to be dealt with , one way or the other . then hezbollah will stop , because they ’ re doing this in support of hamas .” the northern conflict is closely linked to the war in gaza . for the past eight months , with the focus on gaza , israel ’ s leader has tried to keep this conflict contained . now he ’ s facing a glaring reminder of this other front : caught between the war he hasn ’ t finished in the south , and the war he doesn ’ t necessarily want to start .