a criminal investigation has been launched by authorities in egypt following the fatal shooting of an israeli - canadian businessman . the incident happened in the northern coastal city of alexandria on tuesday . the victim has been named by israeli and arabic media as ziv kipper - the head of an egyptian food exporter . a previously unknown group has said it was behind the shooting . it has called itself the vanguards of liberation - the martyr mohammad salah group - an apparent reference to an egyptian police officer who was killed after shooting dead three israeli soldiers last year . in a statement , the group described mr kipper as an israeli agent and said his killing was in retaliation for what it called massacres in gaza and israel ' s seizure of the palestinian side of the rafah border crossing with egypt , which also happened on tuesday . a security source told reuters they had no information about the existence of such a group and whether it had been involved in tuesday ' s attack . neither israel nor egypt have yet officially named the man who was killed . however , the israeli foreign ministry confirmed that the victim was a businessman with dual canadian - israeli citizenship . it added that the israeli embassy in cairo was in contact with the egyptian authorities . egypt ' s interior ministry , meanwhile , said in a statement that the man had been " residing permanently " in the country ." legal action has been taken ," it said , without providing further details . james emmanuel wanki , a spokesperson for global affairs canada - the government ' s diplomatic department - said they were aware of the death of a canadian citizen in egypt and " express our deepest condolences to the family ". " consular officials are in contact with local authorities and available to provide consular assistance to the family ," he said ." due to privacy regulations , no additional information can be disclosed ." mr kipper is listed online as the ceo of ok group , which was founded in 2008 and exports frozen fruits and vegetables . its headquarters is in alexandria .