iran has seized a commercial ship with links to israel as it passed through the strait of hormuz early on saturday . the msc aries was boarded by iranian special forces about 50 miles ( 80km ) off the coast of the united arab emirates , a statement from the vessel ' s operator msc said . footage obtained by reuters news agency appeared to show troops rappelling onto the vessel from a helicopter . the portuguese - flagged ship is linked to israeli billionaire eyal ofer . the incident comes amid heightened expectation of an iranian attack on israel after an airstrike destroyed iran ' s consulate in damascus at the start of april . israel said on saturday iran would bear the consequences for choosing to escalate the situation any further . tracking data last showed the msc aries off the coast of the uae , heading towards the strait of hormuz over 18 hours ago . it then appeared to turn off its tracking data , which is common for israeli - affiliated ships in the region . the uk ' s maritime trade operations agency confirmed the boarding in a statement . it made no mention of iranian involvement , instead stating that the ship had been seized by " regional authorities " off the coast of fujairah in the uae . however , iranian media has been quick to trumpet the involvement of the country ' s special forces in the attack . the country ' s state news agency , irna , said the naval branch of the islamic revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ) had seized the msc aries as it was " linked to israel ". it added that the ship was in the process of being transported to iranian waters . in video footage , troops could be seen rappelling onto the vessel from a helicopter hovering overhead . a crew member could be heard shouting : " don ' t come out ." in the video , one commando could also be seen kneeling to provide cover fire as other troops boarded the ship . according to msc there were 25 crew members onboard at the time of the seizure . white house national security council spokesperson adrienne watson said the crew is comprised of indian , filipino , pakistani , russian and estonian nationals . " we call on iran to release the vessel and its international crew immediately ," ms watson said in a statement . " seizing a civilian vessel without provocation is a blatant violation of international law , and an act of piracy by the islamic revolutionary guards corps , a designated foreign terrorist organization . " it must be condemned unequivocally , and we will work with our partners to hold iran to account for its actions ." officials in tehran have yet to comment on the seizure . the ship is managed by msc , which leases the vessel from gortal shipping inc - a company affiliated with mr ofer ' s zodiac maritime . in response to the attack , israeli foreign minister israel katz called on the european union " to immediately declare the iranian revolutionary guards corps as a terrorist organization and to sanction iran " in a post on x , formerly known as twitter , saying that the cargo ship belongs to an eu member . since 2019 iranian forces have carried out a series of ship seizures in the region and the attack comes amid mounting tensions between iran and israel . ever since the lethal 1 april attack on the iranian consulate building in damascus , which killed a senior irgc commander , iran has vowed to strike back at israel , which it blames for the attack . while israel has declined to comment on the attack , us officials have repeatedly warned that they expect iran to attack israel " sooner than later ". on friday , president joe biden warned tehran against an attack on israel . " we are devoted to the defence of israel . we will support israel ," mr biden said . " we will help defend israel and iran will not succeed ." a spokesperson for israel ' s military said on saturday that iran would " bear the consequences for choosing to escalate the situation any further ". meanwhile , the military announced a nationwide halt to educational activities , amid ongoing concerns over the potential of an attack by iran . the suspension will begin at 23 : 00 local time on sunday . officials also announced a limit on public gatherings of 1 , 000 people .