in video recorded by a palestinian rescuer , a shout comes from under mounds of smashed concrete . " i ' m alma ." " don ' t help me first . help my mum and dad . and please help my brother tarazan . he ' s a baby , 18 months old ." it ' s morning on 2 december 2023 , and 12 - year old alma jaroor has been buried under the rubble of a five - storey building in downtown gaza city for over three hours . " i want to see my brothers and sister ," she shouts . " i have missed them ." but the rescuer reaches alma first , and she clambers out - unaided - from between jagged slabs of concrete and twisted metal bars . she is coated in dust but has no major injuries . they ask where her family is . she points to the rubble on her right and left . warning : this article contains details some readers may find disturbing three months on , alma tells the bbc her story , at length and in detail . her uncle sami sits nearby . she is sheltering with him and his family in a tent in rafah , in southern gaza . her words are a torrent of horror and loss . " i remember waking up under the rubble . i checked my ipad , and saw it was 09 : 00 . i hoped my brother tarazan would still be alive . i was calling out to him , and holding on to hope that one of them would be alive . " i could smell the blood . it was dripping on to me . i was screaming for anyone to rescue us . i was hearing others calling out as well ." but after alma was rescued , she saw tarazan ' s remains . " i lifted the blanket that was covering him . i found him in an unimaginable state ," she says , " his head severed ." at this she falls silent , haunted by what she cannot unsee . " i wish for death after seeing my brother like that ," she says . " he was only 18 months old . what has he done in this war ?" tarazan was not her only loss . her entire family was gone , killed side by side - her parents mohammed , 35 , and naeema , 38 ; brothers ghanem , 14 , and kinan , 6 ; and sister reehab , 11 . alma ' s parents had tried hard to outrun israel ' s bombardment and keep their children safe . she tells us the first area the family fled to was bombed , and the second . and in the third place , the bomb landed on them . relatives say the building where they were sleeping was brought down by an israeli air strike . the israeli army told us it could not comment on this claim without co - ordinates for the building . " we were happy together as a family ," alma says . " we used to hug each other when we were scared . i wish i could hold them all . i didn ' t have enough time with them ." and she is still waiting to bury them . only tarazan ' s body was recovered . " there were 140 refugees [ gazans displaced by the war ] in the building , and only some of the bodies have been found ," she says . " my family ' s bodies are decomposing under the rubble . i long to see them and give them a proper burial ." at times , alma can forget - just for a moment - all she has lost . she sits on the cold floor of the tent with her young cousins . they are fashioning a kite from scraps of plastic and imagination . alma joins in , chatting and smiling . she no longer cries all the time , she says , because she knows that her parents are " happy in heaven ". she has found comfort with her uncle sami ' s family , but not safety . like every child in gaza , she could be killed at any minute . especially vulnerable are those in rafah , where israel continues to threaten a ground assault . it is home to 1 . 4 million palestinians . the war in gaza was sparked by the hamas attacks on israel on 7 october , which killed around 1 , 200 israelis , most of them civilians . since then , the children of gaza have paid a terrible price . the united nations children ' s agency , unicef , says 13 , 000 children in gaza have been killed by israel since the war began , a rate of killing it describes as " staggering ". health ministry officials in the hamas - run territory say that the overall death toll in the war is at least 31 , 923 people . the world health organization regards their figures as " credible " and says the real figures could be even higher . israel says it does all it can to minimise civilian casualties . palestinians counter that many bombs have been dropped on residential buildings teeming with the displaced , killing families like alma ' s . her relatives share a photo with us . it shows alma smiling broadly , surrounded by a group of six young cousins . all are now dead , except for her . they were killed in the 2 december attack , along with her immediate family . and how many almas are there now , robbed of their mothers and fathers ? the war has created at least 20 , 000 orphans as of the end of february , according to preliminary information gathered by researchers from the palestinian centre for human rights . it is an independent non - governmental organisation supported by the eu which works on the ground in gaza . the real number may be higher , according to the centre , but that can ' t be confirmed because of the difficulty and danger of accessing information in gaza . on a patch of dirt , between rows of tents , alma plays hopscotch with her uncle sami ' s children , leaping from square to square . she looks happy and relaxed . it ' s another moment of forgetting . before the war took everything , she liked to sing , and was hoping to become a doctor - as her father wanted her to . " i had dreams that i wanted to achieve ," alma says , " but now i have no more dreams . i feel pain in my heart and it will stay with me for the rest of my life , because they were my family , my parents , my sister and brothers . and they were all gone , in one night ." all alma wants is to escape from gaza and reach her grandmother , who lives abroad . " i want to go to her , and hug her , and feel safe ," she says . additional reporting by wietske burema , goktay koraltan and haneen abdeen