efforts have intensified to secure a deal for a ceasefire in gaza and the release of hostages , with talks resuming in cairo on saturday . hamas said its delegation was travelling in a " positive spirit " after studying the latest truce proposal . " we are determined to secure an agreement in a way that fulfils palestinians ' demands ," it said . us secretary of state antony blinken said " taking the ceasefire should be a no - brainer " for the militant group . hamas ' s negotiators have returned to the egyptian capital to resume long - running talks - brokered by egypt and qatar - that would temporarily pause israel ' s offensive in gaza in return for freeing hostages . in a statement released last night , hamas said it wanted to " mature " the agreement on the table , which suggests there are areas where the two sides still disagree . the main issue appears to involve whether the ceasefire deal would be permanent or temporary . hamas is insisting any deal makes a specific commitment towards an end to the war , but israel is reluctant to agree while the group remains active in gaza . it ' s thought the wording being discussed involves a 40 - day pause in fighting while hostages are released , and the release of a number of palestinian prisoners being held in israeli jails . israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu has repeatedly insisted there will be a fresh military ground operation in the southern gazan city of rafah , even if a deal is agreed . israeli media reported on saturday that his position remained unchanged despite the latest round of talks . but the us - israel ' s biggest diplomatic and military ally - is reluctant to back a new offensive that could cause significant civilian casualties , and has insisted on seeing a plan to protect displaced palestinians first . an estimated 1 . 4 million people have taken shelter in rafah after fleeing the fighting in the northern and central areas of the strip . addressing the prospects of a truce on saturday , minister benny gantz , a member of israel ' s war cabinet , said : " an official response to the outline has not yet been received . when accepted - the war management cabinet will meet and discuss it . until then , i suggest to the ' political sources ' and all decision - makers to wait for official updates , to act calmly and not to get into hysteria for political reasons ." the director of the us central intelligence agency ( cia ), williams burns , has travelled to cairo to help broker the latest talks , according to two us officials who spoke to the bbc ' s us news partner , cbs news . mr blinken has also been a key figure in the negotiations , and visited israel again this week to meet mr netanyahu . speaking on friday in arizona , mr blinken said " the only thing standing between the people of gaza and a ceasefire was hamas ". so far , ceasefire talks have continued for months without a breakthrough . there hasn ' t been a pause in fighting or a release of hostages since the end of november . there have been moments in that time where a new agreement has seemed imminent , but a deal has fallen apart before it could be signed . even in this latest round of discussions , caution is needed . a source familiar with the talks told the bbc that the negotiations remained complex , and any breakthrough could still take several days . a source told the washington post that the us had urged qatar to expel hamas ' s political leadership , if the group continued to reject a ceasefire . on saturday , hundreds of people gathered in democracy square in tel aviv calling for the release of hostages . relatives of the hostages also gathered at the kirya military base in tel aviv to urge the government to make a deal . some accused mr netanyahu of trying to undermine a proposed truce , and others called for an end to the war . ayala metzger , daughter - in - law of 80 - year - old hostage yoram , said the government must agree to end the war if that is the price for the release of the hostages . the war began after hamas and other palestinian militant groups attacked villages and military bases in southern israel , killing at least 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 hostages . during the subsequent israeli military campaign in gaza , 34 , 654 palestinians have been killed and 77 , 908 wounded , according to figures from the hamas - run health ministry .