boycott organisers have claimed 163 acts pulled out of a music festival over its partnership with barclays bank . the great escape festival , an annual event for new music held in brighton , opened on wednesday and finishes on saturday . a protest took place at the start of the festival over the bank ' s links to companies involved with israel amid the ongoing conflict in gaza . a barclays spokesperson said they recognised the profound human suffering caused by the conflict . a bands boycott barclays spokesperson said 163 acts , four showcases and two venues had pulled out of the festival . they said : " the most powerful thing we can do as musicians to send a collective message is withdraw our labour – history has shown us this is a tactic that works . " without the artists , there is no festival .” the festival has not responded to requests for comment . singer steven bamidele , who pulled out , said the boycott was an " amazing statement " that shows people " won ' t sit by and watch things like this happen ". he said it was a hard decision and added : " i don ’ t judge any musician for playing ." big special , one of the acts still taking part , said it would donate its fee to the palestinian children ’ s relief fund . they said : “ we support any band that is trying to do what they can to help no matter what it is ." gaza strip in maps : how life has changedus confirms first aid trucks arrive via gaza pierisrael accuses south africa of false claims at icj lgbtq + club and music venue revenge pulled out and hosted a fundraiser in support of medical aid for palestinians . manager steve jones said they had invested more than £ 10 , 000 in staffing , equipment and training for the festival . he said : " we considered all our options . hospitality is in a really difficult place as it is . " for us it felt like the right thing to do to still open the doors for live music ." a barclays spokesperson said questions about the bank investing in nine defence companies supplying israel " mistook " what the bank does . they said barclays does not make its own investments , but provides financial services to businesses " including those in the defence sector ". they said : “ clients supply defence products to nato and other allies including ukraine and are an important contributor to our security in the uk . " decisions on arms embargoes are rightly the job of elected governments .” follow bbc sussex on facebook , on x , and on instagram . send your story ideas to southeasttoday @ bbc . co . uk or whatsapp us on 08081 002250 .