more than 100 people have protested against the war in gaza in one of the uk ' s most famous student cities . a demonstration took place in cambridge alongside the setting up of a protest camp outside king ' s college . one student said pro - palestinian protesters wanted cambridge university to " disclose " links to companies and institutions " complicit in israel ' s genocide ". the university said it would not tolerate " any form of discrimination , intimidation , incitement , bullying or harassment ". one protester , who declined to give the pa media news agency her name , described herself as " part of a global collective which is a struggle for palestinian liberation ". she said protesters were demanding that the university " disclose all of its research collaborations and financial ties with companies and institutions complicit in israel ' s genocide and then to divest from these ". another protester told the bbc that demonstrators needed to say something about " israel ’ s occupation of palestine "." the university was not listening to us , was not hearing our demands ," he said .“ it was not disclosing any of its financial ties which we know it has ." and so we are taking a stand ; we are escalating the situation .” police said no arrests had been made at the protest . the cambridge palestine solidarity campaign has urged people to write to the university to express support for the encampment and " their demands ". a cambridge university spokesman said the university and king ' s college , on whose lawn the tents were set up , were operating normally ." the university is fully committed to academic freedom and freedom of speech within the law and we acknowledge the right to protest ," it said in a statement ." we ask everyone in our community to treat each other with understanding and empathy . our priority is the safety of all staff and students ." we will not tolerate antisemitism , islamophobia and any other form of racial or religious hatred ." the university has issued " protest guidance " which said : " all members of our community should feel safe and we will never tolerate any form of discrimination , intimidation , incitement , bullying or harassment ." follow cambridgeshire news on facebook , instagram and x . got a story ? email eastofenglandnews @ bbc . co . uk or whatsapp us on 0800 169 1830