a few days after hamas attacked israel and war erupted in gaza , umm mohamed in the occupied west bank received a telephone call from her son in an israeli prison . " pray for me mum ," abdulrahman mari said . " things are getting harder here . they might not let me speak to you again ". it would be the last time she heard his voice . conditions deteriorated for palestinian prisoners in israel after 7 october last year , when hamas mounted its deadly assault on israeli communities near the gaza strip , according to the west bank - based palestinian authority ' s ( pa ) commission of detainees affairs . thirteen palestinian prisoners have since died in israeli prisons , " the majority of them as a result of beating or denial of medication ", the commission ' s head , qadoura fares , told the bbc . abdulrahman was one of the first to die . a carpenter in the village of qarawat bani hassan , he had been on his way back home from work in ramallah in february last year when he was arrested at a mobile checkpoint . he was taken into administrative detention - under which israel can hold people indefinitely without charge - in megiddo prison . his brother ibrahim said the charges against him were minor , such as taking part in protests and possessing a firearm , but said he was also accused of belonging to hamas although there were no specific charges about any activities within the group . ibrahim is still trying to piece together how exactly his brother died . he has to rely on testimony from abdulrahman ' s former cellmates , as well as reports from court hearings . one former cellmate , who spoke to the bbc on condition of anonymity , said : " after 7 october , it was total torture . they beat us for no reason , they searched us for no reason . even if you look at someone the wrong way ." he described having seen abdulrahman heavily beaten in front of him and others . " at 9am , they came into our cell , and began to beat us . one of the guards began to insult abdulrahman ' s parents , which he didn ' t stand for , and he began to fight back . " they beat him badly , and took him away to another cell upstairs for a week . during that time you could hear him crying out in pain ." he said he had only found out about abdulrahman ' s death after he left prison a week later . the israeli prison service did not directly address the bbc ' s questions about abdulrahman ' s death or those of the 12 other named palestinians that the commission of detainees affairs says have died , saying only : " we are not familiar with the claims described and as far as we know they are not true ." professor danny rosin , a doctor from the group physicians for human rights , attended the examination of abdulrahman mari ' s body . his remarks corroborate what abdulrahman ' s cellmate and brother told the bbc . prof rosin ' s report mentioned that bruises had been seen over abdulrahman ' s left chest , and that he had several broken ribs . external bruises were also seen on the back , buttocks , left arm and thigh , as well as the right side of the head and neck with no fractures underneath . it also quoted an additional police report which had mentioned " forceful restraint " being used on mr mari six days before his death . professor rosin said in the report that while no specific cause of death had been found , " one may assume that the violence he suffered manifested by the multiple bruises and multiple severe rib fractures contributed to his death ". he also added that " irregular pulse " or a " heart attack " could result from these injuries without leaving any physical evidence . israel currently holds more than 9 , 300 security prisoners , the vast majority of whom are palestinians according to the israeli rights group hamoked , including more than 3 , 600 people in administrative detention . these figures do not include detainees from the gaza strip being held in separate facilities by the israeli military . mr qadoura says the change after 7 october " affected every aspect of the prisoners ' lives ", alleging that prisoners have been subjected to starvation and thirst and some of those with chronic illnesses were denied their medication . beatings became more regular and more brutal . " i met a detainee who ' d lost 20kg in the last three months ," he said . " it ' s as if the war on gaza was also a war on palestinian prisoners . it was all a form of revenge ." the bbc has previously heard from palestinian prisoners who described being hit with sticks , having muzzled dogs set on them and having their clothes , food and blankets taken away in the weeks after 7 october . the israeli prison service has denied any mistreatment , saying that " all prisoners are held in accordance with the law while respecting their basic rights and under the supervision of a professional and skilled prison staff ". it said prisons had gone into " emergency mode " after war broke out and it had been " decided to reduce the living conditions of the security prisoners ". examples it gave included removing electrical equipment and cutting electricity to cells and reducing prisoners ' activities in the wings . in the west bank village of beit sira , arafat hamdan ' s father showed where israeli police officers had kicked the door of his family home and stormed in at 04 : 00 on 22 october looking for his son . police covered his son ' s face with a thick black cloth and closed it around his neck with a rope . the mask smelled strongly , he said , and arafat clearly had a hard time breathing with it on . " i kept trying to comfort him ." yasser hamdan told the bbc . " it ' s ok . they have nothing against you . they have nothing against us . i kept telling him that as they tied him up outside the house . then they took him ." two days later a phone call came . arafat had been found dead in his cell in ofer prison in the west bank . israeli authorities have not explained how he died . arafat had type 1 diabetes and would suffer from low blood sugar levels from time to time . his father said one of the police officers arresting arafat had told him to bring medicine with him , but it was unclear if he had been able to . the bbc obtained a report by dr daniel solomon , a surgeon who was present at the post mortem of arafat hamdan at the request of physicians for human rights . dr solomon said it had been carried out in israel on 31 october but added that the condition of the body , due to prolonged refrigeration , had made it harder to determine the cause of death . he also noted the absence of any records showing if arafat ' s diabetes medication had been administered and at what dosing . the report also mentioned the need for other tests beyond the post mortem to determine the cause of death . " until now we don ' t know how he died . nothing is clear ." yasser hamdan said . neither arafat ' s nor abdulrahman ' s bodies have yet been returned . their families want to arrange their own post mortems , hold funerals , and say a final goodbye . " he was my flesh and blood . then he was gone in a moment ," yasser hamdan said . photos of his son were everywhere you looked in his apartment . umm mohamed showed photos of abdulrahman on her phone , pointing to one and saying : " look at him . he was so cheerful ." over time he had become a leader in his group of prisoners , she said . " he ' d call me when he was making breakfast for them when they were all still asleep . he was always the most active . he would never sit still , that boy ." she broke down . " bring him back to me . i want to see him one last time . one last look ."