the elder sister of nika shakarami , a 16 - year - old girl who was killed during the 2022 anti - government protests in iran , has been arrested for allegedly not covering her hair , her family says . aida shakarami , 22 , was accused of " not adhering to compulsory hijab " by morality police in tehran on wednesday , her mother nasrin wrote on instagram . " she remains in custody ," she added . the police have not commented , but it comes after they launched a crackdown on breaches of the islamic dress code . tehran ' s police chief said on saturday the new initiative would " confront social taboo - breaking over hijab and chastity and those who seek to expressly contravene hijab rules " - a reference to the many women and girls who have defiantly stopped covering their hair in public . in another development on thursday , video posted on social media appeared to show a young iranian woman having a seizure after she was confronted by morality police in tehran . an eyewitness told bbc persian that officers violently confiscated the woman ' s mobile phone and purse because she was not wearing a headscarf . nika shakarami became a symbol of the " woman , life , freedom " protest movement that shook the islamic republic two years ago . the protests erupted in response to the death in custody on 16 september 2022 of mahsa amini , a 22 - year - old woman who had been detained by morality police in the capital for allegedly wearing her hijab " improperly ". authorities denied that mahsa amini was mistreated , but the un ' s independent international fact - finding mission on iran said in a report last month that she " was subjected to physical violence that led to her death ". on 20 september 2022 , nika was filmed at a protest in tehran setting fire to her headscarf , while other protesters chanted " death to the dictator " - a reference to the supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei . she disappeared that evening after telling a friend that she was being chased by police . her family eventually found her body at a mortuary 10 days later . they alleged that she died from blows to the head and rejected claims from officials that she had killed herself . authorities portrayed the protests as foreign - backed " riots " and tried to suppress them with force . they have not released an official death toll , but the un ' s fact - finding mission said credible figures suggested that as many as 551 protesters were killed by security forces , most of them by gunfire . the government says 75 security personnel were killed . more than 20 , 000 other protesters were reportedly detained , including many journalists and celebrities . nine young men have been executed in connection with the protests following what un investigators found were summary proceedings that relied on confessions extracted under torture and ill - treatment . dozens more have reportedly been sentenced to death or charged with capital offences . the protests have now largely subsided , but there is still widespread discontent at the clerical establishment and , in particular , the hijab laws . in september , iran ' s parliament passed a controversial " hijab and chastity " bill that would impose severe punishments on women and girls for violations of the dress code , including up to 10 years in prison and flogging . it must still be approved by the guardian council before it becomes law . the un ' s fact - finding mission said the " violent repression of peaceful protests and pervasive institutional discrimination against women and girls " had led to serious human rights violations that amounted to crimes against humanity .