cross - border fighting between israeli forces and the lebanese group hezbollah have intensified in recent days , raising fears of a further escalation . hezbollah announced on thursday the deaths of two fighters , after the israeli military said it had struck sites in southern and eastern lebanon . on wednesday , 14 israeli soldiers were wounded in a missile and drone attack . hezbollah claimed it was a response to strikes a day earlier that the israeli military said killed two commanders . there have been exchanges of fire almost every day since the day after the start of the war between israel and hamas in gaza in october . hezbollah has said it is acting in support of the palestinian group . both are backed by iran and proscribed as terrorist organisations by israel , the uk and other countries . more than 330 people have been killed in lebanon , including at least 66 civilians , according to lebanese authorities and the un , while the israeli military says 10 soldiers and eight civilians have been killed in israel . the hostilities have also displaced tens of thousands of people from border communities in northern israel and southern lebanon . on thursday morning , hezbollah ' s media office put out statements saying that two fighters had been " martyred on the road to jerusalem " - a phrase it has been using to refer to fighters killed by israeli fire . it named them as mohammed jamil al - shami and ali ahmed hamada but provided no further details . lebanon ' s state - run national news agency reported that two people had been killed in an israeli drone strike in the border village kfarkela at dawn . warplanes had also targeted the nearby village of khiam with " six strikes and more than 100 artillery and phosphorus shells ", it said . the israel defense forces ( idf ) said in a statement that its aircraft had " eliminated two hezbollah terrorists identified in the area or kfarkela " overnight . fighter jets meanwhile " struck hezbollah terror targets " in area of khiam , including infrastructure and military structures , it added . soldiers also " fired in order to remove an imminent threat " there , according to the statement . on wednesday evening , the idf said jets had struck " significant hezbollah terrorist infrastructure " used by the group ' s aerial defence system in northern baalbek , which is in the bekaa valley in eastern lebanon . that came hours after hezbollah claimed it had carried out an attack that the idf said injured 14 soldiers , six of them seriously and two moderately . a number of anti - tank missiles and explosive drones were launched from lebanese territory towards the israeli border village of arab al - aramshe , according to the idf . israel ' s haaretz newspaper reported that the attack saw the anti - tank missiles hit a community centre in the arab bedouin community and nearby cars , followed by the incursion of two drones , one of which exploded on impact . it said one of the injured soldiers was in a critical condition and that two members of an emergency response squad and three civilians were also hurt . the idf said it struck the sources of the fire , as well as hezbollah military compounds and infrastructure in the lebanese towns of naqoura and yarine . hezbollah said what it had targeted was the headquarters of an israeli military reconnaissance unit in response to " the enemy ' s assassination of a number of resistance fighters in ain baal and chehabiyeh ". the idf said on tuesday that its aircraft had carried out strikes in those areas which killed ismail youssef baaz , who it said was the commander of hezbollah ' s coastal sector in ain baal , and mohammed hussein mustafa shehoury , who it said was the commander of the rockets and missiles unit in the western region for the elite radwan force . a member of that unit , mahmoud fadlullah , was killed alongside shehoury , it added . while hezbollah confirmed the deaths of the three men , it did not identify baaz or shehoury as commanders . fears are growing that the cross - border hostilities will escalate into a wider regional war , particularly after hezbollah ' s backer iran launched more than 300 drones and missiles at israel over the weekend in retaliation for a deadly strike on the iranian consulate in syria earlier this month . the idf said 99 % of the drones and missiles were shot down by its forces , western allies and arab partners , and that an airbase in southern israel sustained only minor damage when it was hit by four missiles . a young bedouin girl was injured by shrapnel . dozens of rockets were also fired from lebanon at northern israel during the attack , while launches were also carried out from iraq and yemen , where iran - backed armed groups operate . israel vowed to respond to iran ' s unprecedented direct attack , but western powers have urged restraint .