scotland moved top of their group after overcoming israel in a women ' s euro 2025 qualifier that was played behind closed doors and delayed by a protester at hampden park . the scottish fa decided not to allow spectators in to the national stadium because of security concerns . hundreds of protesters gathered outside the stadium before the game over israel ' s military operation in gaza while an individual breached security and chained themself to a goalpost which delayed kick - off by 30 minutes . when the game got under way , scotland were dominant in one of their finest first - half performances under manager pedro martinez losa , who has been linked with the vacancy at lyon . the spaniard celebrated the first of claire emslieâ €™ s two goals with a fist pump before applauding kirsty hansonâ €™ s effort in an impressive opening 45 minutes from his side . emslie ' s second made the points safe before the break but it was a more subdued second half until martha thomas scored her 15th international goal with a well - taken penalty to secure back - to - back home wins for scotland . however , the home side were denied a clean sheet , with talia sommer superbly scoring a late consolation for the visitors . scotland have now taken seven points from their opening three games and move top of group two on goal difference , with serbia second after beating slovakia 2 - 1 . the players were in the tunnel and preparing to enter the pitch when the pre - match incident took place . after 20 minutes of waiting while the protester was removed and a quick second warm - up , the scots started in style . hanson was influential down the left throughout the night , and clipped the crossbar early on in a sign of what was to come . it was fellow winger emslie , though , who got the crucial connection for the well - earned first goal following a fantastic pick - out by thomas . for all their dominant play , the scots nearly fell foul of a shock equaliser as sophie howardâ €™ s slip allowed sommer in for a one - on - one with lee gibson . the goalkeeper stood strong to deny her though , and howard made up for her error with a vital block seconds later . scotland took heed of the warning and countered in clinical fashion to score their second , hanson having two efforts at it but her determination paid dividends . she grabbed the assist in the goal of the night , too . in one of the neatest goals from martinez losaâ €™ s side in recent memory , emslie finished a wonderful free - flowing move involving lisa evans and thomas . the quieter second half ' s highlight was the penalty , as cornetâ €™ s cute work led to her being dragged to the deck and a spot - kick awarded . while emslie would have had the opportunity from the spot for a first international hat - trick , tottenhamâ €™ s thomas tucked away a deserved goal after bouncing one off the woodwork earlier . scotland looked poised to walk away with a win and clean sheet , but while gibson remarkably denied her former city team - mate vital kats , she could do nothing about keeping out sommer ' s sensational finish . one of the biggest frustrations during martinez losa ' s reign has been the lack of potency up top . jane ross , who celebrated her 150th cap tonight , returned earlier this year from a 17 - month injury lay - off and in her absence no one quite stepped up to the plate to fill her jersey . with just seven goals in the previous 10 games there had been growing grumbles at scotland ' s lack of strikepower . one way to put that to bed is to score four , and particularly three in the manner scotland did at hampden . at the crux of their scintillating first - half show were the returning pair , thomas and hanson , both of whom got on the scoresheet . there are many qualities they boast to a level few do in the squad - awareness , movement and strength are just a few . all of those proved key in the path to scoring four for the first time in over a year . in the absence of caroline weir , scotland have lacked creativity at times , but the wsl duo have taken it upon themselves to step up for their country . scotland head coach pedro martinez losa : " i want to praise the professionalism of the team ." not only the focus of the players but also the staff in challenging circumstances . our main focus and inspiration is for scotland to qualify for the euros and we have to be at the top of the group , where we are now , we have to win games and that ' s what we remained focused on ." the way we played in the first half was excellent . we created a lot of opportunities and i think that ' s something we want to repeat ." scotland meet israel again on tuesday ( 15 : 00 bst ) in the neutral venue of budapest , hungary . there will again be no fans in attendance .