the children hear the dogs snarling outside , just beyond the flimsy plastic of the tent . the seven children of rehab abu daqqa crowd around their mother . she is the last safe harbour in their lives . they have shared things , these children and their mother , which cannot be communicated to those who have not seen the things they have seen . is there a word to express what a child feels knowing that just a few yards away , animals are dragging a body from a grave ? the vocabulary of childhood is inadequate amid the horrors of this emergency cemetery in rafah . scared is the word rehab abu daqqa uses . warning : this report contains descriptions some readers may find disturbing that is accurate . but there is more to it , she knows . the children have seen dogs eating the bodies . a human leg lying by a fence . so yes they are scared . but revolted too , and uncomprehending . the children who once had a home , went to school , lived according to the established rhythms of their family and community , are now refugees in a place that reeks of death . " this morning the dogs took out a body from one of the graves and were eating it ," rehab abu daqqa says . " from night until dawn the dogs do not let us sleep … our children keep holding on to me because of how scared they are ." the dogs come in packs of dozens . domestic pets whose owners are dead or displaced , mixed with rafah ' s existing population of strays , all of them now feral and scavenging for whatever they can eat . the cemetery has numerous shallow graves where people place their dead until a time comes when they can be taken to their home area . on some graves relatives have placed bricks to try to keep the dogs away from the dead . rehab abu daqqa is gaunt and exhausted . her mouth and nose are covered by cloth to fend off the stench of the graves . she praises the young men who came earlier to reinter a body dragged out that morning . " i don ' t accept that me or my children should live next to a cemetery . my child is in the 3rd grade and today instead of playing a game he was drawing a grave and in the middle he drew a dead body . these are the children of palestine … what can i tell you ? miserable , the word miserable doesn ' t even explain it ." the cemetery is one of several in gaza that has become a refuge for people whose homes have been destroyed in the fighting . there are more than 1 . 4 million people crowded into rafah - five times its pre - war population . according to the norwegian refugee council that works out at 22 , 000 people for every square kilometre . already disease is spreading , with outbreaks of diarrhoea , hepatitis a , and meningitis - as well as a continuing hunger crisis . rafah is where the refugees of gaza reach the final wall , the border with egypt which is closed to the overwhelming majority of the displaced . they arrive after being pushed from one place to another by the advance of the israeli forces . rehab abu daqqa has fled three times already and may soon have to uproot her family again if the israeli defense forces ( idf ) offensive on rafah goes ahead . israel ' s prime minister , benjamin netanyahu , has said a military operation in rafah will go ahead " with or without " a ceasefire to destroy what he says are four hamas battalions in the city . hamas insists there can be no deal without a commitment to permanently end the war . far right members of the israeli coalition cabinet are warning mr netanyahu against compromise . the finance minister , bezalel smotrich , a standard bearer for the settler movement , has called for " absolute destruction " in rafah , saying there can be no " half work ". " where do they [ refugees ] move to ? " asks dr rik peeperkorn , regional director of the world health organization ( who ), who recently returned from rafah . " we already have a crisis in health . we have a water and sanitation crisis , a food crisis . there ' s a humanitarian disaster . so , there ' ll be just another humanitarian disaster on top of this … what we expect will be substantial additional mortality and sickness when a military incursion happens . so , a lot more people dying … a lot more death and a lot more diseases ." dr peeperkorn worked for seven years in afghanistan with the un and is not a man who is easily daunted . but when we met in jerusalem he looked tired . the tiredness of a man who wakes every morning to the certainty of a crisis that seems to threaten ever worse consequences . the who is already preparing for additional field hospitals to help if people are forced to move . but what happens to the seriously ill and the elderly , the 700 kidney dialysis patients who are currently being treated in a facility which once used to cater to 50 ? " if you look at our health sector , it is crippled already and an incursion will actually mean that we lose another three hospitals … like they cannot be reached , they might be damaged , they might be partially destroyed . we are preparing for it with a contingency plan which is like a band aid ." my bbc colleagues have provided graphic evidence of the conditions inside hospitals , filming day after day throughout the war . at the european hospital in rafah families are camped in any space they can find , in the grounds and inside . they prepare meals in wards . their children roam along the darkened corridors , past the wounded being wheeled on trollies , an old woman sitting on her own staring into the distance . in the emergency care ward , 11 - year - old yassin al ghalban is crying on his bed . his legs are gone , amputated below the knee after an air strike . a relative standing by the bed says , " he is surviving on painkillers ". at the cemetery , rehab abu daqqa watches her children play a few yards from the graves . the dogs are gone but the children keep close to their mother . soon she will be on the move again because she cannot bear for her children to stay in this place . there is no talk of hope here . hope in gaza departs at different speeds according to your circumstances . it can vanish in a second with the killing of a loved one . or it can depart incrementally , hour after hour , as you are pushed from one squalid camp to another , and words fail as the questions from the children pile up . additional reporting by alice doyard and haneen abdeen