iran has launched hundreds of aerial drones and missiles at israel , marking a widely anticipated reprisal attack . it is the first time iran has attacked israel directly following a years - long shadow war between the two foes . the israeli military said israel and other countries had intercepted more than 300 cruise missiles and drones , mostly outside israeli airspace . the barrage had caused very little damage , the israeli military said . it warned people to remain alert . us president joe biden said " we helped israel take down nearly all " of missiles and drones as he expressed strong condemnation for the attack . " iran and its proxies operating out of yemen , syria and iraq launched an unprecedented air attack against military facilities in israel ," he said . iran ' s islamic revolution guard corps ( irgc ) said the attack was aimed at " specific targets ". iran had vowed to retaliate for a strike on its consulate in syria on 1 april which killed seven irgc officers , including a top commander . it accused israel of carrying out that attack , but israel neither confirmed nor denied it . following the attack israel ' s prime minister benjamin netanyahu vowed " together we will win " but it is unclear what israel ' s response will be . president biden said he had reaffirmed " america ' s ironclad commitment to the security of israel ". israel defense forces ( idf ) spokesman rear admiral daniel hagari said some iranian missiles had hit inside israel , causing minor damage to a military base but no casualties . israel ' s ambulance service said a seven - year - old bedouin girl had been injured by shrapnel from falling debris in the southern arad region . mr hagari said the widescale attack was a " major escalation " and said israel and allies had operated at full force to defend israel . in a separate briefing , he said iran had fired more than 300 projectiles at israel overnight , 99 % of which were shot down . he added that some of the launches came from iraq and yemen . israel ' s defence minister yoav gallant said " very little damage was caused " but warned the " campaign is not over yet " and said israel must " remain alert ". two us officials told cbs , the bbc ' s us partner , that american forces had shot down several drones , but did not specify where or how they were intercepted . the uk ministry of defence said raf jets had been deployed in iraq and syria to intercept " any airborne attacks within range of our existing missions ". sirens sounded across israel and loud explosions were heard over jerusalem , with air defence systems shooting down objects over the city . iran ' s irgc - the most powerful branch of its armed forces - said it had launched the attack " in retaliation against the zionist regime ' s [ israel ] repeated crimes , including the attack on the iranian embassy ' s consulate in damascus ". president biden cut short a trip to delaware to return to the white house as tensions mounted on saturday . after speaking to mr netanyahu later he said he would convene " my fellow g7 leaders to co - ordinate a united diplomatic response to iran ' s brazen attack ". uk prime minister rishi sunak condemned iran ' s " reckless " attack , vowing that the uk would " continue to stand up for israel ' s security and that of all our regional partners ". un secretary general antã³nio guterres issued a statement saying he " strongly condemn [ ed ] the serious escalation represented by the large - scale attack launched on israel " by iran . he said he was calling for " an immediate cessation of these hostilities " and for all sides to exercise maximum restraint . " neither the region nor the world can afford another war ," he warned . the un security council will convene later for an emergency meeting over iran ' s attack on israel , its president vanessa frazier said . earlier this week , israel ' s defence and foreign ministers warned that if iran attacked israel , israel would strike back inside iran . iranian armed forces chief of staff major general mohammad bagheri told state television that iran ' s response would be " much larger than tonight ' s military action if israel retaliates against iran ", reuters reported . he added that the us had been warned not to back an israeli response . additional reporting : laurence peter , emily atkinson and doug faulkner .