a temporary floating pier designed to increase the amount of aid getting into gaza has been anchored to a beach there , the us military has said . lorries carrying humanitarian assistance are expected to begin moving ashore " in the coming days ". at a briefing for reporters on wednesday , usaid response director dan dieckhaus said construction of the pier - known as a joint logistics over - the - shore ( jlots ) system - is complete . hundreds of tonnes of aid has arrived in cyprus , where screening takes place before being loaded on to ships for delivery to the pier . vice adm brad cooper , deputy commander of us central command , said commercial ships would collect pallets from cyprus and deliver them to a floating platform anchored several kilometres off the coast of gaza . smaller us military vessels , capable of carrying between five and 15 lorries of aid , will then transport it to a floating causeway , several hundred metres long , fixed to the beach in gaza . lorries will travel along the causeway before dropping off the aid at a marshalling yard on the beach . vice adm cooper said the un , primarily the world food programme , will be responsible for the onward distribution of aid . us central command stressed that “ no us troops entered gaza ” in a brief statement announcing that the pier had been anchored to a beach on thursday morning . it was reportedly towed from the israeli port of ashdod on wednesday . the uk foreign office said on wednesday that nearly 100 tonnes of uk aid , consisting of 8 , 400 “ shelter coverage kits ” ( temporary shelters make up of plastic sheeting ) left cyprus on wednesday , bound for the temporary pier .“ we are leading international efforts with the us and cyprus to establish a maritime aid corridor . today ' s first shipment of british aid from cyprus to the temporary pier off gaza is an important moment in increasing this flow ,” prime minister rishi sunak said . un officials say there has been substantial co - ordination with the us over the operation of the jlots , but that they have lingering concerns about how it will work , whether it will bring what is needed to gaza , and whether it will prove safe for aid workers and gazans alike . privately , some describe it as a high tech distraction from what is really needed - properly functioning aid crossings and a safe distribution system throughout the gaza strip . the us officials briefing reporters emphasised that the jlots was designed to augment existing efforts to bring aid into gaza , not replace them .