us vice - president kamala harris says people in gaza " are starving " and has urged israel to " significantly increase the flow of aid " there . she said " there must be an immediate ceasefire for at least the next six weeks ", which would " get the [ israeli ] hostages out ". earlier , israel did not attend truce talks in egypt , saying hamas was not giving a list of hostages still alive . hamas told the bbc it was unable to do so because of the israeli bombing . " practically it is impossible to know who is still alive ," said dr basem naim , a senior hamas official . hamas ' s team and mediators from the us and qatar are understood to be in egypt ' s capital cairo for the planned negotiations . pressure for a ceasefire deal intensified after thursday ' s incident outside gaza city in the north of the palestinian enclave where at least 112 people were killed when crowds rushed an aid convoy and israeli troops opened fire . speaking at an event in alabama on sunday , ms harris said : " what we are seeing every day in gaza is devastating . we have seen reports of families eating leaves or animal feed , women giving birth to malnourished babies with little or no medical care , and children dying from malnutrition and dehydration . " as i have said many times , too many innocent palestinians have been killed ." the vice - president stressed that " our common humanity compels us to act ", reiterating president joe biden ' s commitment " to urgently get more life - saving assistance to innocent palestinians in need ". on monday ms harris is due to have talks in washington with benny gantz , an influential member of israel ' s war cabinet , to discuss a possible ceasefire deal and increased humanitarian aid for gaza . ms harris said " there is a deal on the table and as we have said , hamas needs to agree to that deal . let ' s get a ceasefire . let ' s reunite the hostages with their families , and let ' s provide immediate relief to the people of gaza ." she also said " the israeli government must do more to significantly increase the flow of aid . no excuses ." she was speaking in selma , alabama , at an event marking the 1965 attack by state troopers on civil rights demonstrators , known as bloody sunday . the israeli military launched a large - scale air and ground campaign to destroy hamas after its gunmen killed about 1 , 200 people in southern israel on 7 october and took 253 back to gaza as hostages . gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry says at least 30 , 410 people , including 21 , 000 children and women , have been killed in gaza since then , with some 7 , 000 missing and 71 , 700 injured . dr basem naim , a member of hamas ' s political bureau , told the bbc ' s newshour programme on sunday that the group was unable to provide israel with a full list of surviving hostages . " practically it is impossible to know who is still alive because of the israeli bombardment and blockage . they are in different areas with different groups . " we have asked for a ceasefire to collect that data ", he said , adding : " we cannot accept any preconditions ". he was speaking from istanbul . the uk , us and their western partners consider iranian - backed hamas to be a terrorist organisation . " hamas is a brutal terrorist organisation that has vowed to repeat october 7th again and again until israel is annihilated . hamas has shown no regard for innocent life ," kamala harris said , insisting that " hamas cannot control gaza ".