four months after israeli troops first stormed gaza ' s biggest hospital , al - shifa , claiming it was a cover for a hamas command and control centre , they have returned . the israeli military said it had " concrete intelligence " that hamas operatives had regrouped there . palestinians have told the bbc of their fears at being trapped in fierce battles . while this week ' s raid again highlights a desperate humanitarian situation , it is also a strong reminder that hamas is far from a spent force . some analysts suggest it shows the desperate need for a comprehensive strategy to deal with the islamist armed group and a clear plan on the post - war governance of gaza . the israel defense forces ( idf ) now claim to have killed " over 140 terrorists " in ongoing fighting at al - shifa and to have made some 600 arrests , including dozens of top hamas commanders as well as some from islamic jihad . two israeli soldiers have also been killed . israeli reports suggest that in recent weeks the army found that senior hamas figures had resumed operations at al - shifa and that some even took their families to the hospital . the idf says it uncovered arms caches and a large quantity of cash at the site . hamas has denied that its fighters were based there and claims that those killed were wounded patients and displaced people . palestinian witnesses have told the bbc that gunfire and israeli air strikes have been endangering patients , medics and hundreds of people still sheltering in the grounds . a local journalist has shared footage of smoke billowing from the complex . in another unverified video , shared on social media , dozens of women can be seen hunkering down in a building with their children . one says : " they took our men to an unknown place and now they ' re asking women and children to leave . we don ' t know where we ' ll go ". in the background , an idf officer says over loudspeaker : " do not leave the buildings without instructions . we seek to evacuate civilians without harm , as we did in other hospitals in the past ." since wednesday evening , communications have been severely restricted , making it hard to contact medics and others at the scene . back in november , there were accusations of possible violations of international law as israeli tanks closed in on al - shifa , in the heart of gaza city . premature babies were among those who died as conditions deteriorated in the besieged hospital . the idf released surveillance camera footage which showed two hostages snatched from israel being taken into the hospital . after an extensive search , israeli troops blew up a large tunnel with rooms which ran under the site and later withdrew . the israeli army went on to suggest that hamas ' s regional brigades and battalions in the north of the gaza strip had been disbanded . but soon reports emerged that small cells were regrouping . while hamas has undoubtedly been severely weakened by the war , there have since been signs that it has been trying to restore its governing capability , including through policing and with some possible involvement in aid distribution . washington has indicated that israel ' s renewed military action at al - shifa hospital illustrates its worry that its close ally does not have an adequate strategy to dismantle the organisation . " israel cleared shifa once . hamas came back into shifa , which raises questions about how to ensure a sustainable campaign against hamas so that it cannot regenerate , cannot retake territory ," the us national security adviser , jake sullivan , said this week . the us has been pressing israel to come up with a feasible alternative for hamas rule in gaza . its plan has been to promote individuals linked to the internationally recognised palestinian authority ( pa ) and to work with arab states to prevent a power vacuum . israel previously said it was seeking to cooperate with clan leaders in gaza without affiliation to the pa or hamas . now , the wall street journal has reported that israeli security officials are " quietly developing a plan to distribute aid ", working with palestinian leaders and businessmen not linked to hamas . the suggestion is that this " could eventually create a palestinian - led governing authority ". israeli media have suggested the operation at shifa hospital could last for several days . it is not being linked to the military operation in rafah which israel insists it must carry out to win the war with hamas . there has been international concern over the impact such an offensive on the egypt border could have as more than half of the 2 . 3m residents of gaza are now displaced there . " it ' s going to happen . and it will happen even if israel is forced to fight alone ," the israeli strategic affairs minister , ron dermer , told the call me back with dan senor podcast . while the idf has formulated operational plans for rafah and handed these to israel ' s government , no order has yet been given to execute them . it is seen as unlikely that such a move will take place during the islamic holy month of ramadan , which ends around 9 april . it would also take time for israel to build up the necessary forces in gaza . despite declarations to the contrary , israeli experts also believe that in order for a rafah operation to be effective , ultimately coordination will be needed with egypt and the us . " the egyptians are on the other side of the border ," pointed out retired general amos gilad on israel ' s kan radio . " you can ' t do anything in rafah without coordinating with the egyptians and the americans ."