iran has vowed to respond to what it said was an israeli strike on monday that destroyed an iranian consulate building in syria ' s capital , damascus . supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei said israel would " regret this crime ", while president ebrahim raisi insisted that it would " not go unanswered ". iranian state tv reported that seven revolutionary guards , including two generals , and six syrians were killed . the israeli military said it did not comment on foreign media reports . but an unnamed senior israeli government official told reuters news agency that those killed had " been behind many attacks on israeli and american assets and had plans for additional attacks ". they also insisted that the embassy " was not a target ". the new york times also cited four israeli officials as confirming that israel had carried out the strike but denying the building had diplomatic status . israel has acknowledged carrying out hundreds of strikes in recent years on targets in syria that it says are linked to iran and allied armed groups which are armed , funded and trained by the revolutionary guards . the strikes have reportedly been stepped up since the start of the war in gaza in october last year , in response to cross - border attacks on northern israel by hezbollah and other iran - backed groups in lebanon and syria . iran has so far avoided direct confrontation with israel during the conflict , but monday ' s attack is seen as a serious escalation . on tuesday , iran ' s president said the revolutionary guards commanders had been in syria " as senior advisers in defending the holy shrine " - an apparent reference to a revered site on the outskirts of damascus believed to house the tomb of sayyida zeinab , the daughter of the first shia muslim imam . " having failed to destroy the will of the resistance front , the zionist regime [ israel ] has put blind assassinations back on its agenda to save itself ," mr raisi added . " it must know that it will never achieve its goals and that this cowardly crime will not go unanswered ." later , iran ' s supreme leader also vowed to avenge the revolutionary guards ' deaths , which he described as a " heavy loss " for his country . " the evil regime will be punished by the hands of our brave men . we will make them regret this crime and others like it ," ayatollah khamenei said . iran ' s mission to the united nations in new york also said the strike constituted a " flagrant violation of the united nations charter , international law , and the foundational principle of the inviolability of diplomatic and consular premises ". one of ayatollah khamenei ' s advisers , ali shamkhani , meanwhile claimed that us " remains directly responsible , whether or not it was aware of the intention to carry out this attack ". us national security council spokeswoman adrienne watson said it " had no involvement in the strike " and " did not know about it ahead of time ". syria ' s defence ministry said israeli aircraft launched missiles at the iranian consulate building , which was located next door to the iranian embassy on a highway in the western mezzeh district of damascus , from the occupied golan heights on monday afternoon . the entire building was destroyed , " killing and injuring everyone inside ", it added , without providing further details . iran ' s ambassador , hossein akbari , said the strike was carried out by israeli f - 35 fighter jets and " targeted my place of residence and the consular section of the embassy , along with iran ' s military attaches ". on monday evening , iran ' s revolutionary guards put out a statement saying that seven of its officers were killed , including brig - gen mohammad reza zahedi and brig - gen mohammad hadi haji - rahimi . iranian media said zahedi , 63 , was a senior figure in the quds force - the revolutionary guards ' overseas operations arm - and served as commander in lebanon and syria between 2008 and 2016 . haji - rahimi was meanwhile identified as zahedi ' s deputy . zahedi is one of the most high - profile iranian figures believed to have been killed by israel in the country ' s long campaign of targeted assassinations . on tuesday , iranian state tv reported that the death toll had risen to 13 , with six syrian nationals killed along with the revolutionary guards . the syrian observatory for human rights , a uk - based monitoring group , reported that 11 members of iran ' s so - called " axis of resistance " were killed . they comprised eight iranians , including seven commanders , two syrians and one lebanese national , it said . lebanese security sources also told reuters that one member of lebanon ' s iran - backed hezbollah movement was killed . last week , suspected israeli strikes on damascus and the northern city of aleppo reportedly killed 53 people , including 38 syrian soldiers and seven members of the iran - backed lebanese armed group hezbollah . iran has said revolutionary guards have been sent to syria to " advise " president bashar al - assad ' s forces in the country ' s civil war , but it has denied they have been involved in combat or established bases .