the sudden decision by mcdonald ' s to take over ownership of its branches in israel has thrust the franchise company alonyal and its chief executive omri padan into the spotlight . mcdonald ' s will buy back all of its israeli restaurants after global sales slumped due to a boycott of the brand over its perceived support for israel in its war against hamas in gaza . the fast - food giant uses a franchise system which means that individual operators are licensed to run outlets and employ staff . but the broader company came in for criticism after mr padan offered free meals to israeli forces around the start of the israel - gaza war on 7 october . a boycott was sparked after muslim - majority countries such as kuwait , malaysia and pakistan issued statements distancing themselves from the firm for what they saw as support of israel . mr padan , however , is not new to controversy related to the israeli - palestinian conflict . in the 30 years the businessman has been operating restaurants for mcdonald ' s in israel , he has been at the centre of a number of disputes . in 2013 , the israeli businessman angered israel ' s settler movement when he refused calls to open a branch of the fast - food chain in the settlement of ariel in the occupied west bank . mr padan ' s company alonyal was asked to set up a restaurant in a shopping centre but declined , saying the firm had a policy of staying out of the occupied territories . at the time , the firm said the decision had not been co - ordinated with mcdonald ' s headquarters in the us . israel has built about 160 settlements housing some 700 , 000 jews since it occupied the west bank and east jerusalem - land the palestinians want as part of a future state - in the 1967 middle east war . the vast majority of the international community considers the settlements illegal under international law , although israel disputes this . mr padan is one of the founders of the group peace now , which opposes all settlements and views them as obstacles to peace . peace now says he is no longer a member of the group , which was founded in 1978 . a leader of the yesha council , the settlers ' umbrella organisation , said at the time that mcdonald ' s had gone from being a for - profit company to one with an " anti - israeli political agenda ". alonyal ' s decision resurfaced in 2019 when mcdonald ' s won a tender to run a restaurant and hot dog stand at israel ' s ben - gurion airport . in response , several letters of protest were sent by settlement leaders in the west bank that called on the finance and transportation ministries , as well as the israel airport authority , to block the move . protests were also held outside the fast - food chain ' s restaurants in tel aviv . and on thursday , it was abruptly announced that alonyal would sell the sprawling franchise back to the us food giant . the terms of the deal were not disclosed by mcdonald ' s , although a reputation management expert , who has worked on behalf a number of large companies but did not want to speak on the record , said that those outraged by the decision to offer free meals to israeli forces may be " angry that this deal makes mr padan possibly a very rich man ". they might be pleased though , about the effect the boycott has had . mr padan ' s departure comes after mcdonald ' s said that the israel - gaza conflict had " meaningfully impacted " performance in some overseas markets in the fourth quarter of 2023 . for the unit that includes the middle east , china and india , sales growth stood at 0 . 7 % in the fourth quarter of 2023 - far below market expectations . at the start of the year , mcdonald ' s chief executive chris kempczinski blamed the backlash on " misinformation ". the boycott was also described as " disheartening and ill - founded " by the firm , which relies on thousands of independent businesses to own and operate most of its more than 40 , 000 stores around the world . about 5 % are located in the middle east . the brand management expert said : " i get it . they are buying back the franchises to regain control but i ' m not sure they have ." they also questioned where the company might draw a line : " does this mean [ mcdonald ' s ] will now need to act and offer deals in other areas where reputational damage has been caused ?" on thursday , mcdonald ' s said that it " remains committed to the israeli market and to ensuring a positive employee and customer experience in the market going forward ." it also thanked alonyal for building the brand in israel , while mr padan said : " we are encouraged by what the future holds ." bbc news did not receive further comment from mr padan or alonyal through mcdonald ' s .