labour members might not campaign for the party due to its position on gaza , a council leader has admitted . luton council leader hazel simmons said it was a " concern " and a " possibility " that muslim members might down tools , though she had not seen it happen yet . the israel - gaza war has exposed deep divisions within labour . in february , the national leadership called for an " immediate humanitarian ceasefire ". all of luton ' s councillors voted unanimously to call for a ceasefire . that cross - party vote , on 14 november , was followed by the town ' s two labour mps quitting shadow front bench positions after supporting an amendment to the king ' s speech in parliament . sarah owen , luton north mp , and rachel hopkins , mp for luton south , said on social media the amendment demanded " the immediate end to violence against innocent civilians , the release of hostages and the vital access of humanitarian aid into gaza ". israel invaded gaza following attacks by hamas that killed about 1 , 200 people on 7 october . israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said his government ' s aims were the destruction of hamas and the return of the hostages . many political leaders , including british labour leader sir keir starmer , said israel had a " right to defend herself ". more than 30 , 000 palestinians have been killed , and tens of thousands injured by israeli strikes since the start of the war , according to gaza ' s hamas - run health ministry . luton , where about 30 % of people are muslim , has seen regular pro - palestine demonstrations , which have often criticised the local and national labour party ' s stances . the labour muslim network has said the " future relationship " between the muslim community and labour is at " crisis point ". fahim qureshi , a 63 - year - old who described himself as a " grassroots activist " in luton , left the labour party in 2022 . he said some in the town ' s muslim community were " very distraught " over the response to the israel - gaza war . " there ' s anger at the hypocrisy they see from mainstream politicians ," he said . " this level of distress , despair and anger that ' s galvanised people – i don ' t think i ' ve ever seen it in the town before , not at this level ." mr qureshi predicted the anger would have " tremendous impact " at the ballot box " in the months and years to come ", including at a uk general election , which must happen by 28 january 2025 . " in the [ luton ] labour party , the foot soldiers have been the muslim members , the asian muslim members . they ' ve gone out and done canvassing , leafleting , knocking - up potential voters , running the election centres in different wards on election day – i don ' t think that ' s going to happen ," he said . " also , i don ' t think our councillors and activists will be welcome on doorsteps when they go knocking for labour ." responding to mr qureshi ' s claim , ms simmons told bbc politics east : " obviously it ' s a concern – yes , it ' s a possibility . " that ' s not what we ' ve found to date , but i fully accept that there could be people who don ' t wish to campaign for labour . " but the labour party will carry on and will go out and knock on doors and try to sell the labour message ." ms simmons said she " absolutely " understood the " anger of the community across the country " and that scenes in gaza were " absolutely horrific ". " that ' s why the council called for an immediate ceasefire ," she said . arsalan , 17 , helped organise protests among luton ' s sixth formers . he believed people locally " will be much more careful with their vote this time ". " i know from my working class family – we used to just go out and vote labour . however , this time it ' s not the case ," he said . " i think since this gaza situation ' s happened , a lot more people are paying attention to what maybe rishi sunak ' s saying , what the labour party is saying , what the conservatives are saying , compared to the past – because they ' re talking about issues that they dearly and deeply care about ." in 2003 , labour lost control of luton borough council , with the liberal democrats taking the leadership . the lib dems said the iraq war , which began less than two months before the local elections , was in part to blame . amjid ali , the lib dem leader in luton , said his party was seeing new members joining . but he said anger in communities was not confined to gaza and that it was not just muslims who were protesting about the middle east . " we ' ve had so many years of austerity , the cost of living crisis , the ongoing issues with everything – the bills going up , the fuel going up ," he said . " people are at a very hard - knock stage at the moment , so there are going to be people that are frustrated , they are going to be angry and i think that ' s across the board , rather than just in luton or any particular community ." bbc politics east will be broadcast on sunday , 10 march at 10 : 00 gmt on bbc one in the east of england , and will be available after broadcast on bbc iplayer . follow east of england news on facebook , instagram and x . got a story ? email eastofenglandnews @ bbc . co . uk or whatsapp us on 0800 169 1830