israel ' s high court has issued an order in the long - running dispute over ultra - orthodox military exemptions , deepening a crisis in the government . it instructed a funding freeze for ultra - orthodox , or haredi , educational institutions whose students are eligible for conscription . haredi parties in the government have reacted angrily , while a secular party has threatened to quit over the issue . ultra - orthodox exemptions are opposed by a majority of israelis . the haredi community comprises about 12 % of the population but those in full - time torah study are exempt from mandatory military service . conscription applies to almost all other israelis , apart from israeli arabs , from the age of 18 for both men and women . the government is debating a bill which reportedly seeks to strike a compromise by allowing exemptions with limitations . but the draft plan is fiercely opposed by haredi parties . two of those parties - shas and united torah judaism ( utj ) - hold 18 seats in the 72 - seat emergency government . on the other hand , the secular , centrist national union party , which holds eight seats , is insisting exemptions are scrapped altogether . the party ' s leader , benny gantz , a former army chief of staff , has threatened to pull out of the government over the current plan . " the people will not tolerate it , the knesset will not be able to vote in favour of it , and my associates and i cannot be part of this emergency government if this law passes ," he said on monday . while some ultra - orthodox jews of army service age serve in the israel defense forces ( idf ), the vast majority do not , devoting their lives to torah study in the religious institutions , or yeshivot . the high court ruled that funds to yeshivot whose students qualify for conscription since 1 july 2023 when a previous law on deferrals expired but who have not yet enlisted , will be frozen . it is reported to affect about 50 , 000 yeshiva students . the ruling is due to come into effect on 1 april , a day after a deadline for the government to draft a new law expires . the head of utj , yitzhak goldknopf , called the ruling " a stain and a disgrace ". critics object to the exemption , arguing that all jewish israelis should serve without exception . the issue has intensified since the start of the war in gaza on 7 october , in which 254 soldiers have been killed . a former adviser to shas leader ariyeh deri , barak seri , told israel public radio that " from the moment that the court ruled , the haredi parties have been in utter shock ". " they were stunned by the ruling that funding will stop this monday . the accusations are flying in all directions , at the likud [ party which leads the government ], at [ prime minister benjamin ] netanyahu , at the fully right - wing government , at their representatives ... this is the worst situation the haredim have ever been in ."