french intelligence officials believe russia is behind a stunt in which five coffins draped in a french flag and bearing the inscription “ french soldiers of ukraine ” were deposited near the eiffel tower . three men were seen arriving in a van at about 09 : 00 ( 07 : 00 gmt ) on saturday . the coffins that they left were later found to contain sacks of plaster . police rapidly apprehended the driver , who claimed he had been paid € 40 (£ 34 ) by the two others to transport the coffins . he himself had arrived in paris only the day before from bulgaria . later , police caught the two others at bercy coach station in central paris , where they were allegedly planning to board a bus to berlin . they told police they had been paid € 400 to deposit the coffins , according to french media . police said the driver was bulgarian and the two others were ukrainian and german . they were taken before a judge on sunday , ahead of the expected opening of a judicial investigation for “ violence with premeditation ", the prosecutor ’ s office said . officials said that investigations were under way “ to see if this was organised from abroad ". the circumstances recall two recent episodes in which french police believe russian agents may have been involved . both appear to have been attempts to manipulate public opinion . in october – not long after hamas carried out an unprecedented attack on israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking hundreds of hostages - stars of david reminiscent of the israeli flag were stencilled on several walls in paris . a moldovan couple was arrested , who french officials believe were paid by russian intelligence . last month , red hands were painted on a holocaust memorial in paris , and police believe the perpetrators fled abroad . according to le monde newspaper , quoting a source in the investigation , one of the individuals held on saturday had been in telephone contact with a bulgarian suspect wanted for the red - hands affair . le monde named this suspect as 34 year - old georgi f . moscow reacted angrily last month to president emmanuel macron ’ s repeated refusal to rule out sending soldiers to ukraine . last week , ukrainian officials confirmed that discussions had been held over the despatch of french military instructors . this could provide the context for the coffins affair , investigators think , with russian intelligence seeking to show that there is big opposition to deeper french involvement in the ukraine war . in both the stars of david and red - hands affairs , the teams included a photographer whose pictures subsequently appeared on internet sites linked to russian propaganda .