israel ' s deep political divisions are back on public display . they were put to one side for a while , as shock and national unity followed the 7 october attacks by hamas - but six months later , thousands of protesters are once again on israel ' s streets . the war has turbocharged their determination to unseat israel ' s longest - serving prime minister , benjamin netanyahu . in jerusalem , police used skunk water - a foul - smelling substance fired from water cannons - to clear protesters who had blocked the begin boulevard , the city ' s major north - south highway . well - worn slogans demanding his resignation and early elections were amplified by newer ones calling for an immediate deal to free about 130 israeli hostages still held in gaza . an unknown number of them are presumed dead . the big fear of their families and friends , as well as the protesters , is that many more will die the longer the war drags on without a deal . on sunday evening , as thousands packed the broad avenues around the israeli parliament , katia amorza - who has a son serving in the israeli army in gaza - put down her megaphone for a moment . " since eight this morning , i ' m here . and now i ' m telling netanyahu that i would be glad to pay one way ticket , first class , for him to go out and not come back anymore . " and i ' m telling him also to take with him all those people that they put in the government that he chose one by one , the worst , the worst that we have in our society ." a rabbi crossed the road past katia and her megaphone . it was yehudah glick , who campaigns for jewish prayer to be allowed in the area known to jews as the temple mount , the holiest site in judaism , as well as being home to al - aqsa mosque , the third holiest site in islam . rabbi glick said the protesters have forgotten that their real enemy is hamas , not prime minister netanyahu . " i think he ' s very popular . and that ' s what aggravates these people . i think these people , are not willing to forgive the fact that for so long they ' ve been demonstrating against him and he ' s still in power . " and i ' m calling upon them to demonstrate , to come and demonstrate , speak loud and clear what they feel , but to be careful not to cross the very thin line between democracy and anarchy ." the protesters , and mr netanyahu ' s critics in countries that otherwise support israel , believe the enemies of democracy are already in his government , a coalition that depends on the support of ultranationalist jewish parties . among them is the religious zionism party , led by the finance minister bezalel smotrich . one of its mps , ohad tal , said it was " naã ¯ ve " to believe anything other than more military pressure on hamas would free the hostages . " you don ' t think hamas will bring back so easily the hostages in a deal , release everybody and then will allow us to , you know , to kill all the terrorists that we would release in such a deal ... it ' s not as simple . " if there was a button that you can press and bring back all the hostages and make everything okay , every israeli would press this button . but it ' s not as easy as you may think ." benjamin netanyahu used to say he was the only one who could keep his country safe . many israelis believed him . he said that he could manage the palestinians , settle jews on the occupied land they want for a state , without offering the concessions and making the sacrifices necessary for a peace deal . all that changed on 7 october last year when hamas stormed through the border wire . many israelis hold him responsible for the security lapses that allowed hamas to attack israel with such devastating effect . unlike his security chiefs , who rapidly issued statements admitting they had made mistakes , mr netanyahu has never admitted any responsibility . that infuriates the thousands who blocked streets in jerusalem on sunday evening . israelis must be something like 40 years old at least to remember a time when benjamin netanyahu was not a dominant figure in their country ' s politics . after emerging as an eloquent spokesman for israel at the united nations , his first stint as prime minister came after a narrow victory in 1996 on a platform opposing the oslo peace process . like the current american plan to make peace in the middle east , the oslo deals were built around the idea that allowing palestinians to establish an independent state alongside israel was the only hope of ending a century of conflict between arabs and jews over control of the land between the river jordan and the mediterranean sea . mr netanyahu has been a consistent opponent of a palestinian state . he has contemptuously dismissed the us strategy of backing for palestinian independence as part of a " grand bargain " to remake the middle east . his critics here say his strident rejection of president joe biden ' s plans for governance in gaza after the war is a tool to secure the continued support of israel ' s extreme right wing . one of the protesters outside the knesset was david agmon , a retired brigadier general in the israeli army . he ran the prime minister ' s office when mr netanyahu was first elected . " it ' s the biggest crisis ever since 1948 . i ' ll tell you something else . i was the first chief of staff for netanyahu in 1996 , so i know him , and after three months i decided to leave . because i realised who he is - a danger to israel . " he doesn ' t know how to take decisions , he is afraid , the only thing he knows is to speak . and of course , i saw he depends on his wife , and i saw his lies . and after three months i told him , ' bibi , you don ' t need aides , you need a replacement .' and i left ." while the protesters were still on the streets , mr netanyahu ruled out early elections and repeated his determination to mount a new offensive against hamas forces in rafah . his record as a political survivor and formidable campaigner means that even if his opponents get their wish for early elections , his dwindling band of devoted followers believe he might even win . israelis are not divided about destroying hamas . that war aim has overwhelming support . but the way the war is being handled , and the failure to rescue or free all the hostages , is putting benjamin netanyahu under career - ending pressure .