the us military has published photos showing a floating pier being built in the mediterranean sea to help increase humanitarian aid deliveries to gaza . logistics vessels and personnel can be seen assembling the pier from steel segments , next to a us navy ship . costing about $ 320m (£ 255m ), the pier and a causeway attached to the shore should be operational in a week . the goal is to deliver aid equivalent to as many as two million meals a day to gaza to help avert a famine there . a un - backed assessment said last month that 1 . 1 million people were facing catastrophic hunger and that famine was imminent in northern gaza by may . " right now , you ' re seeing construction of that floating , temporary pier , and then , you ' ll start to see construction of the causeway ," us defence department spokeswoman sabrina singh told reporters in washington on monday . " eventually , that causeway will be ... pushed into the coastline and secured by the [ israel defense forces ]," she added . the pier will be ready a week from now , us secretary of state antony blinken said on tuesday . the un has said a maritime corridor can never be a substitute for delivery by land , and land routes are the only way to bring in the bulk of supplies needed . satellite images published by planet labs meanwhile appeared to show the pier was being built next to the usns benavidez , a military sealift command roll - on / roll - off ship , 11km ( 7 miles ) north - west of the coast of northern gaza . a senior us military official said last week that the israeli military ' s security role meant " no us boots will be on the ground " as part of the mission to construct and operate what is known officially as the joint logistics over - the - shore , or jlots . an unnamed " third party " would also be driving aid lorries down the causeway , the official added . hundreds of sailors and soldiers involved in the operation will live and sleep aboard a british navy logistical support ship , rfa cardigan bay , which has been deployed to the area . on saturday , the idf confirmed that the israeli navy would " secure the forces " operating the pier and said it was " committed to increasing the amount of humanitarian aid transferred daily into gaza ". a senior hamas official told the associated press last week that the group - which is proscribed as a terrorist organisation by israel and the us - rejected " any non - palestinian presence in gaza , whether at sea or on land " and would " deal with any military force present in these places … as an occupying power ". he spoke a day after israel said " terrorists " had fired mortars at the site during a visit by un personnel . no injuries were reported . the idf also released photos and videos of what it described as the " extensive preparations " being carried out by its forces at a 67 acre ( 0 . 27 sq km ) holding area where aid from the floating pier will be brought . the site is just inland from the makeshift jetty built by the us charity world central kitchen in march for a maritime corridor that was suspended after seven of its aid workers were killed in an israeli air strike . the us military official said the floating pier should be able to handle about 90 lorry loads of aid per day initially , and then quickly scale up to about 150 lorry loads . a lorry can typically carry about 20 tonnes of supplies . the un has blamed the severe food shortage on israeli restrictions on deliveries , the ongoing hostilities and the breakdown of order . on friday , the un said a daily average of 192 aid lorries entered gaza during april via the egyptian - controlled rafah and israeli - controlled kerem shalom crossings , which are in southern gaza . the figure did not cover two recently - opened israeli - controlled entry points in central and northern gaza . israeli defence ministry body cogat said an average of 350 lorries entered gaza daily through all crossings in the week beginning 7 april . it has insisted that israel is not limiting aid deliveries and has blamed the un for failing to distribute it to those in need inside gaza . israel launched a military campaign in gaza to destroy hamas in response to the group ' s cross - border attack on southern israel on 7 october , during which about 1 , 200 people were killed and 253 others were taken hostage . more than 34 , 500 people have been killed in gaza since then , according to the territory ' s hamas - run health ministry .