as fighting and suffering continues in gaza , and violence grows in the west bank , prospects of the palestinian people gaining their own state might seem further away than ever . several european countries are pressing ahead with formally recognising the existence of a palestinian state , but they will not overcome the reality that such ambition still faces huge obstacles . however , tuesday ' s actions by ireland , spain and norway , announced last week , will put pressure on other countries in europe - including the uk , france and germany - to follow them in supporting palestinian self - determination .“ this is extremely significant ,” one arab diplomat said . “ it reflects european frustration with the israeli government ’ s refusal to listen . " and it puts pressure on the eu to follow suit .” but israeli ministers insist this will encourage hamas and reward terrorism , further reducing the chances of a negotiated settlement . most countries - about 139 in all - formally recognise a palestinian state . on 10 may , 143 out of 193 members of the united nations ’ general assembly voted in favour of a palestinian bid for full un membership , something that is only open to states . palestine currently has a kind of enhanced observer status at the un , which gives them a seat but not a vote in the assembly . it is also recognised by various international organisations including the arab league and the organisation of islamic cooperation . a minority of european countries already recognise a palestinian state . they comprise hungary , poland , romania , the czech republic , slovakia , and bulgaria which adopted the position 1988 ; and others including sweden and cyprus . but many european nations - and the united states - say they will recognise a palestinian state only as part of a long - term political solution to the conflict in the middle east . this is often referred to as the " two - state solution " where both israelis and palestinians agree to have their own states with their own borders . european countries and the us differ over when they should recognise a palestinian state . ireland , spain and norway say they are doing so now to kick - start a political process . they argue there will be a sustained solution to the current crisis only if both sides can aim at some kind of political horizon . these countries are also responding to domestic political pressures to show more support for palestinians . in the past , the position of many western countries was that palestinian statehood should be a prize for a final peace agreement . but lord cameron , the uk foreign secretary , and some other european countries have in recent months shifted their positions , saying the recognition of palestinian statehood could come earlier , to help drive momentum towards a political settlement . in february , french president emmanuel macron said : “ the recognition of a palestinian state is not a taboo for france .” and earlier this month , france supported palestinian membership of the un in the general assembly vote . the us has privately discussed this issue with european allies , but is more cautious and wants a clearer sense of what the policy would mean in practice . so the key debate behind the scenes is about when these holdout countries should recognise a palestinian state : when formal peace talks begin between israelis and palestinians , when israel and saudi arabia normalise diplomatic relations , when israel fails to undertake certain actions , or when the palestinians take certain actions . in other words , they want recognition of the state of palestine to be a big moment designed to achieve a diplomatic outcome . “ it is a big card that western countries have to play ,” one western official said . “ we don ’ t want to throw it away .” the problem is that recognising a palestinian state is largely a symbolic gesture if it does not also address the vital concomitant questions . what should the borders be ? where should the capital be located ? what should both sides do first to make it happen ? these are difficult questions that have not been agreed - or even answered - satisfactorily for decades . as of last week , a few more countries in europe now believe there should be a palestinian state . supporters will cheer the move , opponents will decry it . the grim reality for palestinians on the ground is unlikely to change .