gate 96 is little more than a hole in gaza ' s border fence . its rutted track leads away towards gaza city ; a bumpy lifeline , quickly lost in thick evening darkness . when the un accuses israel of deliberately keeping aid flows at a trickle , israel points to gate 96 - one of several new aid routes it has approved , along with airdrops and a maritime corridor from cyprus . along the border fence , seven lorries loaded with food aid are lined up and waiting to cross , their engines slowly turning beneath the occasional boom of artillery . this new crossing point takes them directly into gaza ' s desperate northern areas , and avoids a long , difficult drive through the conflict zone . but with the un warning that northern gaza is weeks away from famine , international demands to ramp up the amount of aid are getting more insistent . israel says it has facilitated more than 350 aid trucks into northern gaza over the past month . aid agencies say the territory as a whole needs 500 a day . " the bottleneck of this chain does not lie with the idf [ israel defense forces ]," said colonel moshe tetro , head of the army ' s coordination and liaison administration , which handles approvals for aid convoys . he told the bbc that the army ' s job was to " facilitate the entrance of humanitarian aid into gaza " and that the hold - ups lay with the logistical ability of aid agencies to distribute it on the other side . he pointed to the trucks waiting to cross , saying the evidence was right in front of us . twenty trucks had been approved to cross that night , he said , but only seven showed up . " we took a lot of measures to enlarge the amount of humanitarian aid ," he said . " but the un and other international organisations have some bottlenecks regarding the amount of trucks , amount of truck drivers , manpower , working hoursâ €¦" matthew hollingworth , country director of the world food programme ( wfp ), was on one of the trucks idling by the border fence that night . he told the bbc there was a specific reason why the wfp had not been able to provide all 20 vehicles . " on this particular convoy , we were given a limit of 15 vetted drivers by the idf that were cleared to use this route , but only seven were available to us ", he said . some of the approved drivers had gone to gaza city the previous day , and were stuck there , he said . even driving an empty lorry back through gaza needs israeli army approval . " we need 50 , 60 , 70 , 80 truck drivers cleared to use these routes every single day ," he said . " we need more entry points to northern gaza and gaza city , and we need early approvals so that we can run multiple convoys every single day ." israel is keen to show the world it ' s allowing more aid into gaza - but says it ' s not responsible for the amount of aid actually going in , or the ability of agencies to distribute it on the ground . international law says different : that israel has a duty , not just to open the gates , but to use all means available to it to get food and medicine to the people under its control . col tetro tells me there is no shortage of food in gaza , and that if hamas wants to the change the situation there , they should end the war . asked about the warnings of famine , and images of acutely malnourished children in gaza ' s hospitals , he repeated the same phrases , again and again . " there is no starvation in gaza ," he said . " there is no shortage of food ." on sunday , gaza ' s main relief agency , unrwa , said israel had banned it from delivering any more food to northern gaza . israel says the agency is linked to hamas , and that it would continue to work with organisations that " are not involved in terror ". unrwa ' s director , philippe lazzarini , said the ban was " outrageous " and accused israel of intentionally obstructing aid . the agency recently tried to restart convoys after a two month pause , which began when one of its lorries was shelled during a delivery in january . at gate 96 , army vehicles buzz around the convoy , before the crossing point opens and the trucks move off into the night . this slim channel between israel and gaza crossed only by aid and army ; bringing food and war , life and death .