for about three months , adnan el - bursh reported on the war in gaza while living in a tent , eating one meal a day , and struggling to keep his wife and five children safe . the bbc arabic correspondent shares the harrowing moments he faced covering a war that pushed him to his limits . warning : this report contains descriptions and images some readers may find distressing one of the worst moments of the past six months was the night we all slept on the street . i looked at the faces of my wife and children , huddled in the bitter cold in khan younis in southern gaza , and felt helpless . my 19 - year - old twins , zakia and batoul , lay on the pavement alongside my daughter , yumna , who is 14 , my son mohamed , who is eight and my youngest girl , razan , aged five , with their mother , zaynab . as we tried to rest outside the palestinian red crescent society ' s headquarters , the sounds of shelling echoed through the night and drones buzzed overhead . we had managed to find an apartment to rent , but the landlord had called earlier that day , saying the israeli military had warned him the building would be bombed . i was working at the time , but my family grabbed their bags and fled . we met up at the red crescent headquarters , which was already overflowing with displaced people . my brother and i sat on cardboard boxes all night , discussing what we should do . we had fled our homes in the town of jabalia a few days earlier , on 13 october , leaving most of our possessions behind , after the israeli military told everyone in northern gaza to move south for safety . and now we had just escaped being bombed in the area we had been told to move to . it was hard to think straight . i felt angry , humiliated and terrible that i could not provide any protection for my family . eventually , my family moved to an apartment in nuseirat in central gaza , while i stayed with the bbc team in a tent at nasser hospital in khan younis . i visited every few days . communication was difficult , with internet and phone signals sometimes cut . once i did not hear from my family for four or five days . in khan younis , the bbc team - about seven of us - lived on one meal a day . even when there was food , sometimes we did not eat it because there was hardly anywhere to go to the toilet . during this time my friend , al jazeera bureau chief wael al - dahdouh , suffered a terrible loss . the house his family had been staying in was hit in an israeli air strike . his wife , teenage son , seven - year - old daughter and one - year - old grandson were killed . the israeli military says it takes " feasible precautions " to reduce civilian casualties , and in this case had " targeted hamas terrorist infrastructure in the area ". reporting gaza : my war in gaza , palestinian journalists document the war as they live it on a daily basis . in this bbc world service film , we hear the story of bbc arabic ' s reporter in gaza , adnan el - bursh who found himself reporting the news , as he was living through it . watch now on bbc iplayer ( uk only ) or on the bbc world service youtube channel ( outside uk ) i watched the footage of my friend , who i have known for 20 years , embracing his children ' s shroud - wrapped bodies in central gaza . i wished i was there with him . the news came amid a string of reports about the deaths of other friends , relatives and neighbours . my heart ached . i have now lost about 200 people in the war . that day i wept live on air , as i was reporting . in the night , i woke up with tears covering my cheeks . wael ' s image never left my mind . i have covered conflicts in gaza for 15 years , but this war stands apart , from the unprecedented attack that triggered it , to the scale of the losses . at 06 : 15 on 7 october i was woken by loud explosions and my children screaming . i went up to the rooftop and saw rockets being launched towards israel from gaza . when we realised hamas had breached the fence into israel - in its assault that saw about 1 , 200 people killed and 250 taken hostage - we knew the response from israel would be like nothing we had seen before . more than 34 , 000 people have now been killed in gaza , according to the hamas - run health ministry . the risk of injury and death has been ever - present . two days into the war , i hurried to our local market in jabalia , to stock up with food . it was busy with others doing the same . but the area was bombed heavily just 10 minutes after i left . the entire place was destroyed , including the large grocery store where i had shopped moments earlier . i knew the faces of the shop owners . many of them were among the dead . amnesty international says at least 69 people were killed in the attack and that it should be investigated as a war crime . the israeli military has not responded to the bbc ' s question about this incident . throughout the war it has said its operation is targeting hamas , which it says operates from civilian locations . it also says " strikes on military targets are subject to relevant provisions of international law ". before the war , jabalia was a beautiful , tranquil town . i was born there and had been living a simple , contented life with my family , filled with love and plans for the future . i had a farm east of the town , where i had planted olive , lemon , and orange trees with my own hands . it was peaceful and i loved to drink tea there after work . the day we decided to flee northern gaza for khan younis - leaving our homes and the bbc office in gaza city behind - was a pivotal moment in my life . with more than 10 people crammed into one car , my family and i crawled our way south , along a single road , with tens of thousands of other people , on foot and in vehicles , all loaded with belongings . the journey was punctuated by air strikes on nearby areas on both sides of the road . confusion , grief and uncertainty marked the faces of my family and the crowds . the children kept asking me : " where are we going ? will we be back tomorrow ?" i really wish i had taken our photo album , full of pictures of me as a young child , my parents , and my wife and i when we got engaged . my dad was an arabic teacher and i also wish i had taken some of his books that i kept after he died . later , i learned from a neighbour that my house had been completely destroyed , and my farm burned . after that terrifying and surreal journey south , and our night outside the red crescent headquarters , i continued working from khan younis for several weeks . my family were still in nuseirat and being separated from them took a toll emotionally . then , in early december , israel began telling gazans to leave parts of khan younis and move to other areas , including rafah , further south . the israeli military also closed the main road leading north , which connected me and my family . i did not know how i would get to them or where we should go if i did . rafah was already overcrowded with hundreds of thousands of people , and there was barely anywhere to stay . for days , i grappled with swirling emotions . news circulated about israeli forces advancing towards the main roads , apparently aiming to divide the south from the central and northern regions . i was terrified that i - or my family - would be killed and we would never see each other again . for the first time i felt like i had lost it . i did not even know what day it was . i considered stopping work and returning to my family . if we died , we would die together . in the end , on 11 december , i drove with a colleague along a back road to nuseirat . when i arrived , my youngest children rushed up to hug me , with razan reaching round my neck and holding on tight . we managed to move the family to rafah . the bbc team had also relocated there , continuing to report . there were some awful moments . in late december , i reported as the israel defense forces ( idf ) handed about 80 bodies to the authorities in gaza . the idf said it had taken them from gaza to israel so they could be checked to see if there were any hostages among them . a large lorry drove into the cemetery in the rafah area . the stench was overwhelming when the container was opened . men in aprons and masks placed the remains , wrapped in blue plastic , in a mass grave dug by an excavator in the sandy ground . i had never seen a scene like that before . it is hard to describe how horrible it was . then , in january , i was reporting from a hospital in rafah when several bodies were brought in , including another of wael al - dahdouh ' s sons , hamza , his eldest , who was also a journalist working for al jazeera . who would tell wael ? it just seemed impossible , after the tragedies he had already faced . i could not even listen as one of my colleagues called someone close to wael to pass on the news . hamza and his colleague , freelance videographer mustafa thuraya , were killed in an israeli air strike on their car , after they had reported on the aftermath of another strike in the area . the israeli military alleges they were " members of gaza - based terrorist organisations ". the families and al jazeera reject the claims as false . the idf says the two were operating drones " posing an imminent threat to idf troops ", but a washington post investigation " found no indications that either man was operating as anything other than a journalist that day ". more than 100 journalists have been killed in gaza since 7 october , according to reporters without borders - the vast majority are known to be palestinian . the idf says it " has never , and will never , deliberately target journalists ". it says it " takes all operationally feasible measures to mitigate harm to civilians including journalists ", but " remaining in an active combat zone has inherent risks ". eventually , the news came that the bbc team ' s families had permission to leave gaza . four weeks later , we too finally left through the rafah crossing , facilitated by the egyptian authorities . i am writing this in qatar . but i know that in jabalia , they have been pulling up grass and grinding animal feed to eat , while i ' m here having meals in a clean hotel . i find it hard to eat - it ' s like eating poison . the future is a blur . gaza is my life . i want to return one day , but for now , that seems impossible .