conservative msp stephen kerr has insisted he has " no regrets " for saying humza yousaf may have had a conflict of interest in sending funding to gaza . the scottish government gave £ 250 , 000 to the unrwa aid agency in november 2023 , while the first minister ' s parents - in - law were trapped in gaza . mr kerr said it suggested mr yousaf was " prepared to bend the rules " if he had overridden official advice . that led mr yousaf to condemn the claim as an " outrageous smear ". he also said the decision by the telegraph newspaper to carry the story was " an islamophobic attack ". the scottish government has said that the funding decision was taken by mr yousaf following advice from officials . the snp ' s deputy leader keith brown has now called on rishi sunak to block stephen kerr from standing as a westminster candidate at the next general election . however , mr kerr insisted he was absolutely right to question why the £ 250 , 000 of funding went to unwra when government officials had initially suggested £ 100 , 000 to £ 200 , 000 should instead go to another aid agency , unicef . he told bbc scotland ' s the sunday show : " no - one who watched the trauma that the first minister went through in those days and weeks when his family were stuck , locked , in gaza ... of course there was an issue of personal interest . " and therefore it ' s not wrong in the slightest ( to challenge the first minister ). " that being the case , the question is very simple - what happened and why did it happen ?" mr yousaf posted a series of messages on social media platform x on saturday , in which he said the newspaper story was an attempt to link him to terrorism . he said : " most of my political life , i ' ve battled insinuations from sections of the media desperate to link me to terrorism despite campaigning my whole life against it . " due to my faith & race , there will always be those , particularly on the far - right , who will desperately try to " prove " my loyalties lie elsewhere . that i am a fifth columnist in the only country i call home , the country i love and the country i have the privilege of leading ." the scottish government said civil servants had presented funding options to the first minister " in the usual way ". a spokesperson said : " all those options , by definition , were open to ministers to choose . the decision being sought was which option ministers wished to choose . " the first minister made that decision in the standard way . no ministerial direction was necessary , nor was one ever sought ." but stephen kerr , who sits on holyrood ' s standards committee , maintains the first minister may have breached the scottish ministerial code . he said : " i do not regret doing my job as a parliamentarian in scrutinising the work of the scottish government , including the work of the first minister . " that is why we we have parliamentarians , that is my job and i will continue doing it ." the snp ' s deputy leader keith brown has said rishi sunak should block stephen kerr ' s bid to become a tory mp at the next westminster general election . he pointed to a recent statement the prime minister made outside 10 downing street in which he spoke about trying to stop hatred and division . mr brown also said politicians should " know the consequences of smears like this ". he told bbc scotland news : " anybody looking at the first minister ' s social media timeline will see the nature of the racist abuse that he gets . " and i think this is a scandalous way to try and misrepresent the granting of humanitarian aid to people in gaza . " rishi sunak , if he is to be taken at his word , should denounce this and should sack stephen kerr as a westminster candidate . he is unfit to be so ." unrwa has since been at the centre of controversy surrounding israeli accusations that members of its staff were involved in the 7 october attacks by hamas that triggered the fighting . several countries , including the uk , have announced a pause in support for the relief agency while an investigation takes place after the allegations emerged in january . however , those accusations only became known several weeks after the scottish government funding announcement had been made .