it is all over in seconds . the aircraft slows , lifts its nose and 12 , perfectly wrapped pallets of humanitarian assistance slide off the open ramp at the back . one minute ago , 10 tonnes of food and water was there , the next it was floating gently by parachute in the southwesterly breeze , touching down on the northern shores of gaza . it seems so simple and straightforward . yet the delivery of aid by air is anything but simple . and it is far from uncontroversial . this was the largest coalition airdrop of the war : 14 aircraft from nine nations delivering aid . the scale of the delivery was timed to mark the end of ramadan . at a military airbase to the east of amman , the capital of jordan , we watched as aircrew from the uk , the us , the netherlands , germany , egypt , indonesia , uae and france were briefed by their jordanian counterparts . they need to know who is doing what and where , the airspace over gaza is small . each country has its own drop zone , its own way of delivering aid . the whole operation is organised by the jordanians but everything has to be signed off by the israelis . if the idf says no , then the planes do not take off . the turks were planning to join the coalition today but were vetoed at the last minute . the aid is stacked in vast open hangars : piles of flour , sugar , rice , beans , pulses , oil , and water . the uk has its own corner where british servicemen and women - both from the raf and the 47 air despatch squadron of the royal logistics corps - carefully pack their own pallets . everything is carefully weighed - each bundle cannot be too light or too heavy . everything is packed deliberately to avoid damage on impact . ropes and straps are measured precisely into place . few gifts have been so carefully wrapped . the whole thing sits atop a thick slab of plywood . fork - lift trucks load the pallets on to a400m , one of the raf ' s biggest transport planes - the successor to the much - missed hercules c130s . each container slides along a rolling track on the deck of the plane . repeated checks are made to ensure they will not jam . we take off and 40 minutes later we are over the drop zone . and here is the next complication . the raf normally drops aid as low as 400ft , but the israelis have stipulated they must do so no lower than 2 , 000ft . that means the parachutes have a long time to get blown off course by the wind . that is why some airdrops in recent weeks have landed in the sea . on our flight the pilots warned us they would drop the containers over the sea , but the southwesterly breeze would drift them back inshore . which is exactly what happens . job done and we return home . so none of this easy . the potential for error is huge . it is also not a very good way of delivering aid . the raf flight was carrying about 10 tonnes of aid . that is less than a single truck can carry across a border on the ground . so there is huge effort and expense , but marginal impact . the british military know this . but squadron leader lucy playle , the detachment commander in amman , said the cumulative impact was beginning to tell , with around 1 , 500 tonnes of aid delivered in the past month . " this is a sustained effort ," she said . " we ' ve been here for three weeks now , and we are continually delivering aid . " the people of gaza are very grateful for the efforts that we are going to . and we will keep delivering and delivering , until we can ' t give them any more ." some international aid charities say these flights are for show - to present an illusion that some countries are contributing to the humanitarian effort . they say the airdrops are a symbol of the failure to get aid in by other means , a distraction from that effort . they argue , correctly , that the airdrops will simply not meet the need on the ground . there are also risks . there is no way of organising the distribution on the ground . some gazans have been crushed stampeding for the pallets . others have drowned trying to grab those landing in the sea . some were even injured when containers dropped on buildings . but the aircrews here in jordan insist they are making a difference , that they are filling a gap - not least while there is simply not enough aid getting through by road or sea . warrant officer adrian dibbs said : " it ' s not that much - but it is the effort that counts , as in every little helps . i am quite proud and privileged to be involved in this sort of a mission ."