us senate majority leader chuck schumer has called for israel to hold elections to replace prime minister benjamin netanyahu , as cracks appear in a once stable and friendly alliance . mr schumer , the highest - ranking jewish official in us government , said on thursday mr netanyahu had lost his way . leaders in washington have avoided directly criticising mr netanyahu ' s approach to the conflict in gaza it is a sharp escalation in us criticism of mr netanyahu ' s government . mr schumer , who has backed israel throughout his 25 years in the senate , warned those casualties in gaza risked turning israel into a " pariah ". speaking in the senate on thursday , mr schumer , a long - time supporter of israel , harshly criticised the israeli leader , who he said had come to allow " his political survival to take precedence over the best interests of israel ". israel , mr schumer said , must make " course corrections " and take steps to better protect civilians in gaza . israel ' s leaders were quick to reproach the senator , with mr netanyahu ' s likud party saying israel is not a " banana republic " and that the prime minister ' s policies are " supported by a large majority ". " it is expected of senator schumer to respect israel ' s elected government and not undermine it ," the party said . israel ' s ambassador in washington , michael herzog , also attacked the remarks , writing on x that it was " unhelpful " and " counterproductive " to comment on " the domestic political scene of a democratic ally ". the statement from one of america ' s most powerful political leaders come on the heels of pointed critiques from white house . washington leaders from both parties , including president joe biden , have mostly refrained from criticising how mr netanyahu has handled the conflict , which began when hamas gunmen stormed into southern israel on 7 october , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking more than 250 others hostage . while the us remains israel ' s closest ally and biggest provider of military aid , concerns have been mounting within the biden administration and among some members of his own party over israel ' s handling of the war . mr biden , who is running again for the white house , is also facing political pressures in this presidential election year . a coalition of arab - american voters have organised successful protest efforts during the democratic primary process , a sign of growing restlessness in the democratic base about the situation in gaza . cracks began to publicly emerge between the two governments recent weeks , with mr biden warning israel against expanding its invasion into the city of rafah , which he called a " red line ". in his state of the union address last week , mr biden also called israel ' s response in the territory " over the top ". after the speech , he was caught on a hot mic telling a concerned senator that he and the israeli leader would soon have a " come to jesus moment ". when alerted to the live audio , mr biden replied : " that ' s good ." and president biden has become increasingly vocal in calling for israel to let more humanitarian aid into the enclave , with " no excuses ". nonetheless , the white house was quick to distance itself from mr schumer ' s comments on thursday . spokesperson john kirby said that while the senate leader had a right to his opinion , administration officials were focused on working with israel on its defence . more than 30 , 000 palestinians - the majority of them children and women - have now been killed in gaza since 7 october , the hamas - run health ministry said last month . the actual number of dead is likely to be far higher as the count does not include those who have not reached hospitals , among them thousands of people still lost under the rubble of buildings hit by israeli air strikes . mr netanyahu said on sunday that he could not accept the figure of 30 , 000 . he said israel ' s military had killed 13 , 000 hamas fighters in gaza and that it estimated the ratio of civilian deaths to combatant deaths was 1 to 1 . 5 . in his thursday remarks , mr schumer said : " as a democracy , israel has the right to choose its own leaders , and we should let the chips fall where they may . " but the important thing is that israelis are given a choice . there needs to be a fresh debate about the future of israel ." " in my opinion , that is best accomplished by holding an election ," he added . israel is next due to hold a general election by october 2026 . for peace talks to advance , mr schumer said palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas , who is based in the occupied west bank , must also step down . the palestinian leader , who is 88 , has been little seen throughout the conflict and his government has not held elections since 2006 . on wednesday , mr abbas , who has been under pressure from the us to reform the palestinian authority , appointed his former adviser as prime minister . mr schumer ' s comments prompted a rebuke from outgoing republican senate leader mitch mcconnell , who called the 40 - minute speech " grotesque " and " unprecedented ". he said it was " hypocritical for americans who hyperventilate about foreign interference in our own democracy to call for the removal of a democratically elected leader of israel ". opinion polls show most israelis support the war , but one survey released in january suggested just 15 % of voters wanted mr netanyahu to remain in office once the conflict ends . meanwhile , the us revealed sanctions against three more settlers and for the first time against two israeli settlement outposts it accused of undermining stability in the occupied west bank . there were nearly 500 israeli settler attacks against palestinians between 7 october and 31 january , according to un figures . the vast majority of the international community considers the settlements and outposts illegal under international law , though israel and the us dispute this interpretation .