thousands of people have marched through london to ask for hostages being held by hamas to be brought home . the ' united we bring them home ' march on sunday began at lincoln ' s inn fields in holborn and ended in whitehall , central london . families of israeli hostages who attended on sunday called for all parties in the ongoing israel - palestinian conflict to act fast to " bring our loved ones home ". the event was organised by hostages and missing families forum uk and was also attended by a variety of organisations . a total of 121 people remain unaccounted for after being kidnapped by hamas on 7 october , with least 37 of them presumed dead . speakers at the event included hostages ' families , honorary president of the conservative friends of israel lord polak cbe , and professor daniel shek , former israeli ambassador to france . the uk ' s chief rabbi ephraim mirvis also attended . people travelled from as far as australia and the us to go to the march . omer neutra , a 22 - year - old tank commander in the israeli defence force ( idf ), was taken by hamas and his uncle and aunt osnat and menachem getz were in london for the event . mr getz said omer has dual american - israeli citizenship , and when he finished high school he took a gap year trip in israel to " learn about his family routes ", later deciding " it was his obligation to do service in the army " and join the idf ." hamas released a video showing omer and his group being taken hostage ," he added ." since that day , we have heard nothing . there has been no sign of omer . it ' s devastating and no family should go through such horrible days ." although us president joe biden has urged israel and hamas to reach a ceasefire and hostage exchange agreement , the family said time is running out . mr getz said : " we still have hope . but every day is crucial , every day is critical ." merav and amir daniel ' s son , oz , 19 , was also a member of the idf and was killed on 7 october . they said they initially believed he was taken hostage and only found out about his death four and a half months after the attacks . mr daniel said : " it ' s very hard for us to travel the world and to speak to people . but we cannot just sit at home and cry ." three months after his death , the family said are still yet to get oz ' s body back . he added : " we ask the whole world to return our oz , our son , with the other hostages ." the time is critical . the hostages have no time left . bring them home ." more than 36 , 000 people have been killed in gaza since the start of the conflict , according to the hamas - run health ministry . the war began in october when hamas gunmen launched an unprecedented attack on israel , killing about 1 , 200 people and taking 252 back to gaza as hostages . follow bbc london on facebook , twitter and instagram . send your story ideas to hellobbclondon @ bbc . co . uk