cruelti , suspicion , and complet indiffer to the suffer of hi famili and hi peopl & mdash ; these are some of the qualiti that are reveal when read the testimoni of yahya sinwar , the leader of hama in gaza , from hi day as a young and particularli danger oper in the rank of the terrorist organ . the qualiti cite here were referenc by sinwar dure a recent reveal polic interrog in 1989 . hi quot give a glimps into the dark person of the master terrorist , who did not hesit to harm hi peopl or anyon he consid to be an apost from the religion of islam or a collabor with israel . a chill illustr of thi can be found in the testimoni concern the murder commit by sinwar & mdash ; of a collabor with israel name rami salim . '' i strangl him with a kaffiyeh `` in order to get the `` author `` to kill salim , sinwar turn to the leader of hama , sheikh ahm yassin . salim wa subject to a violent interrog at the hand of sinwar , and confess to have tie with the isra secur forc as well as violat religi principl . in hi investig , sinwar describ salim ' s execut : `` on the way i blindfold him with a rag , so that he wouldn ' t see where we were go . at the cemeteri i put rasmi into the big grave ... and there i strangl rasmi with a kaffiyeh i had . then i suffoc him , wrap him in a white cloth , in a shroud , and then i went out and close the grave . '' the same wa true of anoth person , name adnan azfur , whom sinwar also suspect of have connect with israel . '' we interrog adnan , beat him and talk to him , and then he admit that he wa connect with the isra intellig ... then we decid to kill him ... and there i strangl adnan by forc , and i ... dug in the place , and we buri him there , and we each went to our home . '' in hi statement to the polic , sinwar describ how the inform reach him : `` we receiv inform about one fathi issa , from the al - birij refuge camp , who wa cooper with the author . '' sinwar follow him , kidnap him , and brought him to an orchard for an ' interrog ' . ' i stay with fakhri and start question him . i grab hi throat with one hand and start choke him , and with the other hand i punch him in the stomach , then suddenli he had a heart attack and die , '' sinwar told hi investig . anoth person who did not escap sinwar ' s clutch wa a man name hossein al - sir mahan yun . thi is how sinwar describ hi exploit to the polic : `` while they were threaten hossein al - sir , as he start to get out of the car and start to resist , i press the gun to hi neck so that he would get into our car . then a bullet wa fire from my gun and hit him . '' sinwar test bomb & mdash ; on al - shifa hospitalanoth exampl of the indiffer of the hama leader in gaza to the live of hi peopl can be found in the follow stori : in 1987 , sinwar want to experi with drop explos charg . of all place , he chose shifa hospit in gaza citi as a dummi target , which ha sinc becom a symbol of hama ' s cynic and the willing of it and it leader & mdash ; who accord to report are or at least were hide under the hospit & mdash ; to use the civilian popul as a human shield . the explos devic did explod . the quot that appear here are taken from a high court decis that reject the request of sinwar ' s father , ibrahim hassan sinwar , that hi hous not be destroy due to hi son ' s crimin act . the retir presid of the suprem court , meir shamgar , reject the petit with the follow prophet word : '' the sever of yahya ' s action , describ abov , who strangl to death , with hi own hand , peopl suspect of cooper with the author , is the background to the decis of the respond , who consid and believ that in thi case the adopt of punit measur is requir . there is no reason to deni the reason of thi step . '' inde , the member of yahya ' s famili are also now suffer becaus of hi action , '' shamgar wrote , `` but thi is inde , more than onc , the side effect of ani punish ( such as imprison or even a fine ) , which is inde impos on the accus , but which hurt & mdash ; no less and sometim even more & mdash ; those who depend on him . thi alon can not be use to negat the justif of an act of deterr punish , which appear to the respond to be essenti in order to fulfil hi duti and respons . the petit is dismiss . ''