the retreat of the unit state from the world stage could doom the abraham accord , former us ambassador to israel david friedman told the jerusalem post annual confer & nbsp ; on tuesday , in a warn to the biden administr . & ldquo ; thi won & rsquo ; t work if america retreat from the world stage and fail to project it valu in the region , & rdquo ; said friedman as he spoke with the paper & rsquo ; s senior contribut editor and diplomat correspond lahav harkov at jerusalem & rsquo ; s museum of toler . he spoke of the deal broker by the former trump administr under whose rubric & nbsp ; israel normal tie with four arab countri : the unit arab emir , bahrain , morocco and sudan . watch the jerusalem post 10th annual confer video & gt ; & gt ; as a trump administr envoy in the region , friedman wa a part of the process from it infanc . on monday , he launch the friedman center for peac throughstrength to help continu to advanc the accord . he ha just complet a documentari on the process and is author a book on the initi . the accord , he said , were possibl becaus they were back by a strong us that guid and encourag tie between arab nation and israel , offer polit , econom and secur support . friedman never mention the us presid joe biden & rsquo ; s withdraw of us forc from afghanistan , but he appear to refer it when he said that the biden administr need to convinc arab state that it can be depend on as a strong region alli . countri that sign the abraham accord and those that could join the deal are ask , & ldquo ; is america go to be a reliabl partner go into the futur ? all these countri depend on a strong america , & rdquo ; friedman said . he also spoke to the biden administr & rsquo ; s attempt to reviv the 2015 joint comprehens plan of action . the plan , otherwis known as the iran nuclear deal , wasdesign to limit iran & rsquo ; s nuclear capac and wa sign between tehran and six world power . the former trump administr exit the deal and the biden administr ha sought to reviv it , but third - parti talk held in vienna have stall . in the interim , iran ha advanc toward the product of a nuclear weapon , a move that diplomat and pundit have specul could soon render the idea of reviv the jcpoa irrelev . friedman said the biden administr had to be on onli one of two path ; it could halt iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program through maximum sanction and covert action , or it could engag in talk with regard to a new deal that would replac the jcpoa . but thi gray area , in which there wa an absenc of diplomaci and maximum pressur , wa not appli and wa unsustain . he also caution the biden administr against lift sanction just for the option of continu talk to reviv the 2015 iran deal . it doe not make sens , he said , & ldquo ; to let up on sanction , reduc the pressur and beg for a diplomat outcom . & rdquo ; watch the jerusalem post 10th annual confer video & gt ; & gt ;