new york - christi & rsquo ; s is honour to announc a hundr year of art in israel : a select of import art from the phoenix group collect , an exhibit of more than 70 object . thi exhibit will be open to the public 10 am to 5 pm weekday and saturday , and 1 pm to 5 pm sunday , through 1 march 2024 . these work have not been seen outsid of israel . the current exhibit celebr the 75th anniversari of phoenix group , a lead isra financi servic firm that ha sold import work with christi & rsquo ; s in london and new york . the phoenix group show is among a number of non - sell exhibit that christi & rsquo ; s host as part of it mission to celebr artist express in all of it mani form . thi includ non - sell exhibit in collabor with 1 - 54 contemporari african art fair of mix media work with a caribbean focu at christi & rsquo ; s london in octob , and upcom , a showcas of african art at christi & rsquo ; s hong kong , 26 - 30 march . christi & rsquo ; s is also pleas to announc that two of the work in the exhibit will be offer for sale in the may 21st centuri art sale in new york . phoenix will dedic proce from thi sale to support young isra artist . a hundr year of art in israel includ paint , draw , sculptur , and video work that trace the past centuri of isra cultur . the piec are group themat , creat connect among period , movement , ideolog , and media . the result juxtaposit enabl us to see a repeat swing back and forth between engag with ancient jewish cultur and the reborn hebrew one ; between yearn and fulfil ; abstract idea and their realiz ; sanctiti and secular ; jewish tradit and artist avant - gard . the chairman of christi & rsquo ; s america , marc porter , said : & ldquo ; we are honor to bring thi import exhibit to new york citi , an event that is the culmin of a year of plan and more than two decad of work with the phoenix group , which began with the sale of it american art collect . i have work in israel my entir career , includ decad on the board of the american friend of the tel aviv museum of art and i am deepli move and gratifi to be part of thi notabl occas . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; the ceo of phoenix group , eyal ben simon , said : & ldquo ; our art collect is an express of the pride we take in our nation & rsquo ; s histori , cultur , and creativ . thi exhibit of a centuri of isra art is an opportun to share work we love with the world at the crossroad of the world , new york citi . we are also thrill to announc that phoenix group will be offer two work at christi & rsquo ; s in may to help us fund ongo support for young , isra artist . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; exhibit highlight : & nbsp ; on exhibit and offer for sale in may : phoenix group & rsquo ; s collect of isra art , compris of nearli 1 , 400 work , is one of the finest and most comprehens in it field . thi treasuri of artwork ha play a major role in the construct and preserv of the isra artist canon and ha earn it place alongsid the collect of israel & rsquo ; s lead museum . establish in the earli 1980 at the instig of joseph hackmey , the owner and ceo of the phoenix up to 2002 , the collect chronicl the signific pinnacl and shift of isra art from it incept to today . the collect includ a larg number of key work by mani of israel & rsquo ; s lead twentieth centuri artist , make it possibl to track their develop throughout their career . larg part of the collect have featur in exhibit at the tel aviv museum of art ( 1998 ) and the ashdod art museum ( 2006 ) . it ha not been comprehens display sinc then , but individu work have been on loan to variou venu , includ the perman exhibit of isra art at the israel museum in jerusalem . & nbsp ; about christi & rsquo ; sfound in 1766 , christi & rsquo ; s is a world - lead art and luxuri busi with a physic presenc in 46 countri throughout the america , europ , middl east , and asia pacif , and flagship intern sale hub in new york , london , hong kong , pari and geneva . renown and trust for our expert live and onlin - onli auction , as well as bespok privat sale , christi & rsquo ; s unparallel network of specialist offer our client a full portfolio of global servic , includ art apprais , art financ , intern real estat and educ . christi & rsquo ; s auction span more than 80 art and luxuri categori , at price point rang from $ 500 to over $ 100 million . christi & rsquo ; s ha sold 7 of the 10 most import singl - owner collect in histori , achiev the world record price for an artwork at auction , launch the first fulli on - chain auction platform dedic to except nft art and manag an invest fund to support innov startup in the art market . christi & rsquo ; s is also commit to advanc respons cultur throughout it busi and commun worldwid . to learn more , brows , bid , discov , and join us for the best of art and luxuri at christi . com or by download christi & rsquo ; s app . & nbsp ; pleas note when quot estim abov that other fee will appli in addit to the hammer price - see section d of the condit of sale at the back of the sale catalogu . & nbsp ; * estim do not includ buyer & rsquo ; s premium . sale total are hammer price plu buyer & rsquo ; s premium .