on juli 9 , the secur cabinet decid by a major of eight to one ( nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir vote against ) with one abstent ( financ minist bezalel smotrich ) that israel would act to prevent the palestinian author & rsquo ; s collaps . thi is the offici translat of the resolut present by prime minist benjamin netanyahu : & ldquo ; in the absenc of a chang in the nation assess , israel will act to prevent the collaps of the palestinian author , while demand that it ceas it anti - israel activ in the intern legal - diplomat arena , the incit in it media and educ system , the payment to the famili of terrorist and murder , and the illeg construct in area c . & rdquo ; the statement ad that the prime minist and the defens minist would submit propos step to stabil the civilian situat in the palestinian arena . these includ the construct of a new industri zone in tarkumiy , near hebron , a move support by the isra secur establish . & nbsp ; as part of the effort by israel and egypt to boost the palestinian economi , the prime minist ' s offic recent approv the develop of a natur ga field off the gaza coast to be administ by the pa . & nbsp ; whi doe israel want to save the pa ? accord to isra offici , the decis to help the pa is aim at counter the influenc in the west bank of iran , which back both hama and palestinian islam jihad . the offici say that the collaps of the pa could caus a similar situat to that in gaza , where hama seiz control in 2007 . they argu that the pa & rsquo ; s loss of control , particularli in the northern west bank , ha empow terrorist group and forc the idf to conduct counter - terror oper in the territori . & nbsp ; ben - gvir call the decis to strengthen the pa & ldquo ; delusion . & rdquo ; he said : & ldquo ; there is no greater absurd than the fact that a bodi that encourag terror , pay salari to terrorist and their famili , encourag in the educ system incit in favor of the murder of jew , and take over territori in judea and samaria , will receiv a basket of reward from the isra govern in the midst of a wave of terror . & rdquo ; it is worth note that the isra govern collect some ni 800 million annual in tax for the pa , account for up to 70 % of it revenu , exclud foreign aid . & nbsp ; on juli 10 , the pa reject israel & rsquo ; s demand for help to prevent it collaps . & ldquo ; yesterday , the isra govern came out with decis concern the palestinian author on the pretext that they want to offer gestur to the palestinian , & rdquo ; pa prime minist mohammad shtayyeh told a pa cabinet meet . & ldquo ; on behalf of the palestinian govern , we say that what is requir of israel is to halt it aggress on our peopl , kill , settlement , and the piraci of our money . & rdquo ; establish 30 year ago as part of the 1993 oslo peac accord with israel , the pa ha weaken consider over recent year amid alleg of corrupt and incompet , and opposit to it secur cooper with israel . as a result , it is face an increas threat from hama and pij . pa presid mahmoud abba wa elect on januari 9 , 2005 , for a four - year - term , and the last elect for the palestinian legisl council were held on januari 25 , 2006 . it is possibl that neither he nor hi fatah faction would win elect in the territori if they were held today , and question remain about the 87 - year - old leader & rsquo ; s successor . recent palestinian poll show that abba & rsquo ; s popular ha plung , with 80 % say he should resign . & nbsp ; accord to a poll of palestinian conduct by the palestinian center for polici and survey research , & ldquo ; for the first time sinc the creation of the pa , a major say that it dissolut or collaps serv the interest of the palestinian peopl . & rdquo ; what doe thi mean for the futur of the pa and israel ? that is the focu of thi issu . & nbsp ;