what & rsquo ; s in a name ? doe chang the name chang the purpos ? not realli . it & rsquo ; s mere a pacifi ploy to placat objector . we could see that thi week with the jerusalem parad , which while still in the plan stage , start out as the adloyada , which signifi lot of joy and merriment . when object were rais by famili of the hostag and their support , the event wa not cancel , but the name wa chang to unit purim . although it wa a mute affair compar to the annual parad dure the intermedi day of sukkot , it still attract a larg number of spectat and particip . accord to municip estim , the attend figur wa in the realm of 30 , 000 . but there were also protest wave placard with sign that regist displeasur at a festiv event be held while no agreement had yet been reach on the return of the hostag . in interview last week , when the hold of the parad wa still a strongli contest issu , jerusalem mayor mosh lion said that it wa a way to bring happi to the mani evacue children who were be host in jerusalem . on the actual day of the parad , he said that it wa not a celebr but a continu of tradit , ad that israel & rsquo ; s enemi & ldquo ; will not stop us . & rdquo ; while the frustrat of the hostag & rsquo ; famili is understand , they should rememb that in jewish tradit , the sabbath and jewish holi day take preced over grief and mourn , and the week - long shiva mourn period is suspend . as a rabbin declar holi day , purim may have less sanctiti or strictur than passov , rosh hashanah , yom kippur , or simchat torah , but it is the onli festiv where the jewish peopl are command to enjoy themselv , eat a sumptuou meal & ndash ; and indulg in alcohol beverag until they lose the abil to discern what is happen around them ( ad lo yada ) . mosh lion a guest of honor ■ two day prior to the parad , lion and hi wife , stavit , were guest of honor at the hazvi yisrael synagogu in talbiyeh . although lion did not lead the servic or read from the torah as he ha done dure past visit , he did give a mini sermon . it wa one of the rare occas in which congreg heard two sermon instead of one . referenc the torah portion that begin with the word & ldquo ; zachor & rdquo ; ( rememb ) , lion spoke briefli on the import of remembr , then launch into hi favorit subject : the revolut that ha overtaken jerusalem , and the huge construct boom throughout the citi . inde , tall tower are now loom in almost everi neighborhood , but the mayor should be awar that the foundat of all these tower are well below ground , and in dig them real estat develop are caus damag to the surround area . walk to the synagogu from hi home in rehavia , lion must have sure notic all the pothol and crack in the road and the pavement , which are a blight on israel & rsquo ; s capit . that situat will onli get wors as more car , motorbik , scooter , and bicycl travers the street . lack of adequ park facil caus increas number of vehicl to park on the pavement , forc pedestrian to step out into the road . moreov , electr scooter and two - wheel vehicl , in addit to park on the pavement , are also ride there & ndash ; sometim at extraordinari speed & ndash ; caus frighten hazard to pedestrian . is there no one on the citi council who care ? israel prize news ■ over the year , there ha been no shortag of faculti member of the hebrew univers among israel prize laureat , but thi year there were special circumst in the choic of cochav elkayam - levi , a legal expert from hu & rsquo ; s davi institut for intern relat , be name among the recipi . she is be recogn for her tireless work to rais awar about and acknowledg of the crime against human commit by hama on and follow oct . 7 against isra women , children , men , and famili . elkayam - levi establish the civil commiss on oct . 7 crime by hama against women and children , which aim at give voic to the victim and their famili , rais awar about the concern develop in war crime against women , children , men , and famili on and after the massacr , and rais support for thi caus . her award is in the field of solidar ( ahdut hadadit ) , which is a new israel prize categori . ani prize for an hu faculti member is , by extens , a prize for the univers itself . hu presid prof . asher cohen said : & ldquo ; the hebrew univers take immens pride in the profound impact dr . cochav elkayam - levi ha had on rais awar and acknowledg of the atroc commit against isra women , children , men , and famili on and follow oct . 7 . her relentless dedic ha serv as a power catalyst for justic and remembr , inspir us all to confront advers with courag and compass . & ldquo ; we congratul [ her ] on be award the israel prize , the state & rsquo ; s highest honor , in a testament to her unwav commit to shed light on one of the darkest chapter of our share human . & rdquo ; educ minist yoav kisch , in prais elkayam - levi & rsquo ; s work in the intern arena , said that her commit to expos the atroc of hama & ldquo ; is a crucial pillar in our ongo struggl for justic and in our effort to confront the perpetr . & rdquo ; he said that her work is deepli valu by the peopl of israel , who owe her their heartfelt gratitud . greerfc @ gmail . com