gal gadot will soon be abl to conduct a barbershop quartet & ndash ; or rather , a beautyshop quartet & ndash ; in her live room , as she and her husband , jaron varsano , announc on wednesday that she had given birth to their fourth daughter . hour after give birth , gadot post photo of herself and her newborn on instagram , write : `` my sweet girl , welcom . the pregnanc wa not easi and we made it through . you have brought so much light into our live , live up to your name , ori , which mean & lsquo ; my light & rsquo ; in hebrew . our heart are full of gratitud . welcom to the hous of girl .. daddi is pretti cool too . `` & nbsp ; & nbsp ; ori join her sister , 12 - year - old alma , six - year - old maya , and nearli three - year - old daniela . & nbsp ; the uk newspap , the daili mail , broke the news of her pregnanc in decemb when it publish photo of her in lo angel with a visibl babi bump . gadot ' s involv follow octob 7the wonder woman star ha been uncharacterist quiet recent on her instagram account , which ha 109 million follow , as she took care of herself in the month lead up to the birth . & nbsp ; thi wa in sharp contrast to the earli day of the war follow the octob 7 massacr by hama , when she upload dozen of post and stori call for the releas of the hostag . she wa also involv in organ a screen of the compil film of the hama atroc for hollywood a - lister last fall . & nbsp ; gadot most recent star in the netflix spi thriller , heart of stone , and will appear next year as the evil queen in a live - action version of snow white . & nbsp ; in 2022 , gadot spoke to instyl magazin about her love of motherhood , say , & ldquo ; i love give birth . i would do it onc a week if i could . it ' s so magic . and i alway take epidur , to be fair , so it ' s not so pain . just the moment you feel like you ' re creat life , it ' s incred . '' while she acknowledg that it wasn & rsquo ; t alway easi to balanc motherhood with stardom , she said , `` that is the badass thing i do : the juggl between my famili life and my act career . ''