israel & rsquo ; s continu war - between - war campaign ha led to a decreas in iran smuggl weapon into syria , accord to idf chief of staff lt .- gen . aviv kohavi . & ldquo ; the increas in the scope of oper over the past year ha led to a signific disrupt of all smuggl rout into variou arena by our enemi , & rdquo ; he told report on sunday , ahead of new year & rsquo ; s day . israel ha repeatedli warn about iran & rsquo ; s nuclear ambit as well as aspir of region hegemoni . it ha admit to hundr of airstrik as part of it & ldquo ; war - between - war & rdquo ; ( known as mabam in hebrew ) campaign to prevent the transfer of advanc weapon to hezbollah in lebanon and the entrench of it forc in syria , where they could easili act against israel . in an attempt to halt iran & rsquo ; s hostil region activ , israel ha increas it oper in syria . the fire of antiaircraft missil by regim forc ha also increas . the militari believ iran , syria and hezbollah are deter from war with israel , as they rare retali against isra strike . when they do , they tend to target us base . the latest alleg isra strike on tuesday morn target latakia port and destroy an immeasur amount of advanc and strateg weaponri . howev , the strike have not been limit to syria . iran & rsquo ; s air , land and sea corridor did not function for 70 % of 2021 due to oper carri out as part of the mabam . kohavi said last year that the increas in oper , both overt and clandestin , had led to a slowdown of iran & rsquo ; s entrench in syria . & ldquo ; but we still have a long way to go to complet our goal in thi arena , & rdquo ; he said . with the risk of region war break out be low , and as israel & rsquo ; s campaign against iran in syria is achiev satisfactori result , the mabam will continu into the come year , senior militari offic have said . dure a visit to the ramat david air forc base along with iaf command maj .- gen . amikam norkin and oc strategi and third circl divis maj .- gen . tal kalman , defens minist benni gantz call on the countri in the region to stop iran from harm their sovereignti . the idf had a year with & ldquo ; signific oper action , & rdquo ; gantz said , ad that the militari ha dealt with threat on variou front , & ldquo ; all of which are fuel by iran , which is the greatest enemi to the citizen of israel and the peopl of the middl east . & ldquo ; the iranian regim can not provid educ or water to it citizen , but it continu to invest huge sum in it nuclear project and it proxi . iran is undermin govern in syria , lebanon , yemen and other countri , and it seek to set the region on fire . i call on the countri of the region to stop iran from harm it sovereignti and resid . & rdquo ; israel will not allow iran to send balanc - break weapon to it proxi to threaten isra citizen , he said . & ldquo ; the idf will continu to oper everywher & ndash ; in the air , on land and at sea & ndash ; to ensur the secur of the state of israel , & rdquo ; gantz said . in addit to israel & rsquo ; s polici of remov iran from syria , the regim of presid bashar assad ha been work with the russian in an attempt to expel all foreign forc from syria . after assad regain control of 60 % of the countri , the govern ha been tri to reassert itself as sovereign and expel iran and it proxi , includ hezbollah and other shi & rsquo ; ite militia . as assad work with russia , israel will continu to take advantag of the situat to push iran out . while israel & rsquo ; s strongest alli remain the unit state , the idf continu to work with russia , a key influenc in the middl east and especi in syria , where it ha leverag over assad . in addit to continu the mabam , the idf is advanc plan for a militari strike against iran , to be prepar if or when the polit echelon decid to carri out that strike against tehran & rsquo ; s nuclear program . dure a speech at the institut for nation secur studi confer in tel aviv last year , kohavi said he had order the militari to begin prepar renew plan for a strike on iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program . & ldquo ; iran can decid that it want to advanc to a bomb , either covertli or in a provoc way , & rdquo ; kohavi said . & ldquo ; in light of thi basic analysi , i have order the idf to prepar a number of oper plan in addit to the exist one . we are studi these plan , and we will develop them over the next year . the govern , of cours , will be the one to decid if they should be use . but these plan must be on the tabl , in exist and train for . & rdquo ; with tension increas over iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program and region hostil , both israel and iran have been threaten each other . senior offic have said the militari is capabl of carri out a strike . on friday , at the end of five day of militari drill , iran fire 16 ballist missil toward a target simul israel & rsquo ; s nuclear facil in dimona . the idf know that should a strike be order , the respons would be a multifront war with hama , hezbollah and other iranian proxi , fire thousand of rocket , includ precis missil , toward israel and it strateg asset . to prepar for such a scenario , the idf ha increas it intellig - gather capabl for futur oper , procur addit weaponri , updat oper plan for all front , increas train exercis over the past year , and updat it target bank . although the amount of precis weapon it ha is 10 time the number it had on the eve of the second lebanon war , the idf is continu to procur a larg amount of precis and special munit . the ni 58 billion defens budget set for the idf in the come year is expect to allow the militari to focu on the threat pose by iran across the region , with ni 3 . 5b . design for thi . intellig and oper cooper , along with joint exercis with foreign and region countri , are also help israel & rsquo ; s secur and are of great signific , the militari believ . a year after the sign of the abraham accord , which led to the normal of relat with sever arab countri , the potenti for cooper and the build of signific militari manpow is alreadi evid . the main threat to the countri remain the rocket arsen of hama and hezbollah , iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program , and potenti nuclear weapon and infiltr forc such as hezbollah & rsquo ; s radwan unit . as tension with lebanon and syria remain high , 31 rocket were fire from lebanon and anoth two long - rang rocket were fire from syria . in respons to the rocket fire from lebanon ( by palestinian and hezbollah ) , the idf fire munit from fighter plane and some 200 artilleri shell . the militari also thwart nine attempt to infiltr from lebanon and anoth two from syria . it also confisc 120 kilogram of drug and 75 weapon over the past year . despit the ongo tension , the idf view the overal strateg - secur situat as have improv compar with previou year .