hama fire a massiv barrag of rocket at central israel throughout the day tuesday , set off alarm in dozen of commun and citi around tel aviv , in the negev , in the northern west bank , and in the gaza border area . there were hit in alfei menash and holon , with three peopl moder wound . the barrag indic that hama continu to possess long - rang rocket , 18 day into the war . idf chief of staff lt .- gen . herzi halevi address the nation from the southern border : & ldquo ; i want to be clear , we are readi to invad , & rdquo ; he declar , as the idf continu to weigh the time of the ground war in coordin with the polit echelon . expand on the delay , which ha puzzl some , halevi said , & ldquo ; at thi stage , there are tactic and strateg factor that are allow us more time to improv and to exploit everi minut to be more readi . & rdquo ; in contrast , & ldquo ; with everi minut that pass for the other side , we are attack the enemi more , kill their fighter , kill their command , destroy their infrastructur , and collect more intellig for the next move . & rdquo ; continu rocket barrag toward israelth north wa hit as well with rocket barrag on tuesday , as hezbollah fire an anti - tank missil at the border commun of shtula , and fire on elkosh . an idf uav struck two terrorist cell that carri out rocket and mortar shell launch toward idf post , as well as a cell threaten mount dov . israel continu to strike at hama target in gaza , includ heavi hit in the northern part of the strip , in the shati camp , shejaia , jabalya , and other area . idf spokesman brig .- gen . daniel hagari ad that the militari continu to warn gazan to emigr to and remain in southern gaza , where they can access humanitarian aid . israel also drop more leaflet over gaza & ldquo ; urg palestinian to give them inform about hostag be held by hama and offer them protect and a reward , & rdquo ; reuter note . the idf ad on tuesday night that it attack a terrorist frogman cell attempt to cross into isra territori by sea . meanwhil , it continu to prepar for the expect ground incurs , which includ prepar as mani unit as are need with train refresh cours in urban combat as well as gener train for reservist . so far , 300 , 000 reservist have been call up sinc the war began . while hezbollah ha deploy anti - tank missil , rocket , mortar , drone , and small arm to threaten israel , the idf ha continu to elimin terrorist squad attempt to infiltr . the idf said five cell were elimin on monday and more were taken out tuesday afternoon . the alma research and educ center note that & ldquo ; sinc the start of the war in the northern arena , there have been two infiltr attempt , 200 rocket and mortar launch , and 30 atgm [ anti - tank missil ] attack & rdquo ; from lebanon . across the region , iranian - back proxi use drone to attack us forc in iraq and syria . the houthi in yemen , back by iran , have use drone as well . the idf said , & ldquo ; dure combin oper activ , idf tank , helicopt , and artilleri struck anti - tank missil launcher and observ post in which hama terrorist oper were locat . simultan , iaf helicopt and fighter jet struck terrorist infrastructur locat in a multi - stori build , as well as addit anti - tank infrastructur . strike terror outpostsin gaza , the idf kill a number of hama terrorist in at least 400 strike against terrorist target overnight , in addit to the 320 it struck between sunday and monday . the overal number of airstrik ha not been releas , but it is like approach 10 , 000 . french presid emmanuel macron visit israel on tuesday , as the us continu to bolster forc in the region , amid report that israel wa caution against a ground oper take place without a plan for the day after , as well as report that the us is concern about a wider region conflagr . overal , threat from iran have been reduc in iranian offici media and rhetor over sunday to tuesday . while hezbollah continu to regularli list casualti , it also appear to have slightli reduc it attack ; it may have lost as mani as 30 terrorist sinc octob 7 . & nbsp ; in the gulf , news report are increasingli specul as to what will happen to gaza after the conflict ; al - ain media discuss how the palestinian author might return to gaza . lebanon ha also reportedli put togeth an & ldquo ; emerg plan & rdquo ; to help civilian in case of a larger conflict in lebanon . halevi & rsquo ; s comment were the most emphat acknowledg to date of critic from the idf of the govern for delay the counter - invas of gaza . nevertheless , the assess is that hama is be put off balanc by the continu aerial war . & ldquo ; we are keep them in tension , & rdquo ; said halevi , suggest that the longer hama wait for the isra invas , the more stress it will becom . he also cite the complex of tri to rescu 220 hostag . & ldquo ; israel is at the height of a war that wa start by the hama terrorist organ . it will regret it . it is start to regret it even now , & rdquo ; halevi said . he ha been brief differ unit in the field and listen to fighter and command . & ldquo ; we have train for thi , we have outfit the troop with qualiti tool , among the most advanc in the world . but most importantli , we have the best warrior for these mission . & rdquo ; & nbsp ;