follow the war cabinet ' s decis to approv an increas fuel allow for the gaza strip , both former prime minist naftali bennett and nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir have public critic the decis , accord to isra media . the prime minist ' s offic announc on wednesday night that it would be increas the fuel allow into gaza in order to ward off an immin humanitarian collaps as well as prevent diseas outbreak . the amount permit to enter would be decid on a situat basi accord to `` the morbid situat and humanitarian situat . '' the secur cabinet , thi even , approv the recommend of the war cabinet to allow a minim supplement of fuel & ndash ; necessari to prevent a humanitarian collaps and the outbreak of epidem & ndash ; into the southern gaza strip . & mdash ; prime minist of israel ( @ israelipm ) decemb 6 , 2023dissatisfact with the war cabinetben - gvir wa one of the dissent vote in the war cabinet , anoth wa financ minist bezalel smotrich . dure the meet , ben - gvir said `` thi fuel is use by hama . we said a few week ago that not a drop would enter and suddenli we chang the red line ? in order to defeat hama and terror , we must stop with the concept . '' while bennett said `` bring fuel into gaza dure a war constitut an inject of energi to hama . thi is a grave error , certainli when it happen while our abducte are be held in inhuman condit and against intern law , and are not even visit by the red cross . '' '' the fuel is the oxygen - in the liter sens - of hama . without it , hama will collaps . hama use fuel for the ventil and light system in the terrorist tunnel , for the movement of arm men , and for terrorist activ against us . those who send our soldier to fight against a cynic enemi must know how to withstand pressur , also of friend , at such a crucial point in the war . '' strateg affair minist ron dermer defend the decis as `` critic `` cite the need for continu american support . thi come as us offici begin put pressur on israel to put more effort into protect civilian in the gaza strip .