among the 158 airstrik by the idf sinc tuesday morn against islam jihad in the gaza strip , there were instanc in which it delay or call off attack to avoid civilian casualti . in a video distribut to the media , the idf highlight one such instanc in which it call off an attack to avoid strike two civilian minor . the target appear to be rocket , or a rocket crew , in an outdoor area cover by a number of tree . watch : the moment an iaf pilot cancel a strike against islam jihad terrorist becaus of the presenc of children near the target . pic . twitter . com / geczhjxweu & mdash ; israel defens forc ( @ idf ) may 11 , 2023initi , one of the target offic connect to iaf unit 200 could be heard say that they were onli one minut from fire on the target . then anoth voic is heard identifi a child nearbi and then identifi a second child . idf call off airstrik to avoid hit children in gaza . ( credit : idf spokesperson ' s unit ) some of the children can be seen run around , and the origin voic say multipl time to paus the attack . eventu , the command call it off . idf wait until target islam jihad command were away from civiliansin fact , the initi of the counterstrik oper earli tuesday morn , with a weeklong delay sinc islam jihad fire more than 100 rocket on israel on may 2 - 3 , wa partial to wait until the three top islam jihad command were all in area with fewer nearbi civilian . despit wait , a number of famili member and other civilian were kill dure the attack . intern law of war stipul the limit of civilian casualti as much as possibl . nevertheless , some ancillari civilian casualti are permit when the militari target that is among them present a suffici advantag . what those term mean is hotli debat . on the one hand , israel is critic by mani intern bodi when civilian die from it attack . on the other hand , the idf ha receiv compliment from other militari for cut - edg tactic to avoid civilian casualti and zero in on strike . about 25 % of islam jihad & rsquo ; s rocket land within gaza , harm gazan or their properti , the idf said thursday . the terrorist group & rsquo ; s rocket kill four gazan civilian , age 51 , 16 , 16 and 10 , it said . the statist show the poor qualiti of islam jihad & rsquo ; s rocket and rocket crew , it ad . they also indic that islam jihad regularli violat intern law of war by have it rocket crew in civilian area in the gaza strip , as well as fire on isra civilian , rather than ensur that they fire from area where the rocket could not hit their own popul , the idf said . & nbsp ;