two separ incid that took place in the west bank over the past few day underlin the discrep between the palestinian author & rsquo ; s rhetor in public and it action on the ground . & ldquo ; the palestinian author is a real jekyl and hyde , & rdquo ; a ramallah - base western diplomat remark thi week with refer to the inconsist . & ldquo ; the palestinian author & rsquo ; s rhetor toward israel is bad , but it action on the ground , especi the secur coordin with the isra secur author , are good . & rdquo ; the diplomat & rsquo ; s remark is share by mani palestinian who are familiar with the inner work of the pa . in the first incid , two isra women in their 40 were spot by palestinian late at night drive their car alon insid al - ama & rsquo ; ri refuge camp at the entranc to ramallah and it twin citi , el - bireh . the camp is consid a stronghold of palestinian milit belong to variou group , includ those oppos to pa presid mahmoud abba and hi rule fatah faction . the pa secur forc are often reluct to enter al - ama & rsquo ; ri to avoid friction with the group . in thi case , howev , as soon as the pa secur forc were inform about the presenc of the isra women in the camp , they rush to the scene and safe escort them out and hand them over to the idf . the second incid took place in the pa - control part of hebron , a citi tradit known as a stronghold of islamist group , particularli hama and hizb ut - tahrir ( parti of liber ) . a bu carri idf soldier that accident enter hebron wa safe escort by pa secur forc out of the citi . no one wa hurt and minim damag wa caus to the bu as a result of rock - throw by a small number of palestinian . the two incid could have end in a tragic way , were it not for the intervent of the pa secur forc . had ani of the women or soldier been harm , thi would have result in a seriou deterior in the secur situat on the ground and renew tension between the new isra govern head by prime minist naftali bennett and the pa . such an escal would also have dealt a sever blow to the biden administr & rsquo ; s effort to rebuild confid between israel and the palestinian with the hope of reviv the stall peac process . the biden administr ha endors a polici that seek to bolster the stand of the pa as a way of counter the rise popular of hama . the american want the isra govern to follow suit by engag with pa offici and refrain from unilater move , includ the evict of arab famili from their home in the east jerusalem neighborhood of sheikh jarrah . inde , bennett & rsquo ; s govern and the pa leadership appear to be move toward some form of rapproch . in addit to the continu secur coordin , isra and pa minist recent met for the first time in sever year . moreov , the govern ha agre to increas the number of permit for palestinian who wish to work in israel , and , accord to palestinian sourc , senior pa offici whose vip card were confisc by the previou govern of benjamin netanyahu have gotten them back . some palestinian maintain that the secur coordin between the pa secur forc and the idf never stop , not even when abba and other palestinian institut claim that they had suspend all tie with israel , includ in the secur field . the incid in ramallah and hebron were not the first of their kind . sever case involv isra ( jewish ) citizen who were seen by the palestinian insid area a of the west bank have been return safe to israel , thank to the effort of the pa secur forc . entri into thi area , which is control exclus by the pa , is forbidden to all isra citizen . israel , howev , doe not stop arab - isra from enter area a . most of the case involv isra caught in area a are not public , probabl in order to avoid embarrass the pa . each time palestinian learn that the pa secur forc & ldquo ; rescu & rdquo ; isra citizen caught in area a , they accus the palestinian leadership of & ldquo ; collabor & rdquo ; and serv as & ldquo ; subcontractor & rdquo ; for the isra secur establish . but the secur coordin is not a one - way relationship benefit israel alon . abba wa quot a few year ago as tell a group of isra who visit him at the mukata presidenti compound in ramallah that secur coordin [ with israel ] is & ldquo ; sacr . & rdquo ; although abba did not elabor , it & rsquo ; s obviou that the palestinian , too , enjoy the fruit of thi coordin . first , the pa and israel have a common enemi in the west bank & ndash ; hama . abba is well awar that without israel & rsquo ; s secur presenc in the west bank , hama and anoth iranian - back proxi , palestinian islam jihad , would pose a direct threat to the pa . second , the secur coordin ensur the continu flow of fund to the pa from the american , european and other intern parti . in a bid to further curri favor with the western donor , includ the biden administr , abba and senior pa offici have recent indic their readi to return to the negoti tabl with israel under the auspic of the quartet member & ndash ; us , european union , unit nation , and russia . pa offici who are talk about their dissatisfact with the bennett govern are actual send a messag to the biden administr that it need to get more involv in the isra - palestinian conflict . yet while palestinian secur offic are & ldquo ; rescu & rdquo ; isra who accident enter area a , and as the secur coordin appear to be continu in full forc and effect , the rhetor of the pa and fatah toward israel remain as toxic as ever . thi is precis whi mani palestinian and isra are confus about the real intent of the pa leadership . on the one hand , the pa is tell palestinian that it want to prosecut isra for & ldquo ; war crime & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; ethnic cleans & rdquo ; befor intern forum , includ the intern crimin court . the pa is also tell palestinian that there is no differ between the bennett govern and the netanyahu govern , especi regard the polici of settlement construct and the & ldquo ; judaiz & rdquo ; of jerusalem . on the other hand , thi is the same pa that is allow it minist and secur offici to hold meet with their isra counterpart . similarli , mani in israel still can not figur out whether the pa is an alli or an enemi . the pa & rsquo ; s deed and rhetor suggest that it is both an alli and an enemi . it is an alli when it come to work with the idf in maintain secur and stabil in the west bank . it is an enemi when it come to the fieri rhetor of pa offici and media outlet . & ldquo ; the palestinian author ha alway excel in send conflict messag to both the palestinian and the isra , & rdquo ; remark a veteran palestinian journalist from ramallah . & ldquo ; the palestinian have long becom use to the duplic of the palestinian leadership . & rdquo ; the pa & rsquo ; s action on the ground may be good for israel in the short term . these action place the pa on the side of the good guy in the war on terror . in the long run , howev , the anti - israel rhetor emerg from ramallah is further radic palestinian . the pa , in other word , is drive more palestinian into the welcom arm of it own rival , hama and palestinian islam jihad . the appar rapproch between the pa and the isra govern and the biden administr & rsquo ; s polici of & ldquo ; strengthen & rdquo ; the pa are critic for the continu surviv of abba and hi cohort . but thi approach come with a cost . the closer abba move toward israel and the us , the more he lose point with the palestinian street . the bennett govern and the biden administr may help the 85 - year - old abba hold on to power , but there & rsquo ; s noth the isra and american can do to help him regain the confid of hi peopl . abba & rsquo ; s decis to cancel the parliamentari elect , which wa suppos to take place on may 22 , and the recent unpreced massiv secur crackdown on palestinian polit activist , journalist and social media user have sever undermin the credibl of the pa leadership . at thi stage , it & rsquo ; s clear that the widespread discont with the ramallah - base leadership doe not pose an immin threat to the pa . the pa secur forc remain loyal to abba , and the number of peopl will to take to the street to demand & ldquo ; regim chang & rdquo ; is declin everi week . if and when the peac talk with israel resum , abba is sure to face a radic reaction from the palestinian . under the current circumst , the likelihood of market ani agreement with israel to the palestinian public is zero . thi statist nonstart is the direct result of the pa & rsquo ; s decad - long demon of israel , which remain one of the major obstacl to move forward with ani peac process .