former new york citi mayor and philanthropist michael bloomberg conven a roundtabl discuss of isra mayor in tel aviv on thursday to launch a recoveri and repair innov initi for the hardest - hit citi in israel amid the war ; it & nbsp ; wa unveil exclus to the jerusalem post . the initi , under bloomberg philanthropi , intend to provid both support and expertis base on vast experi in other conflict zone to the most affect commun across israel that suffer follow the massacr on octob 7 and dure the subsequ war . commit to provid support for israel dure the war & nbsp ; & ldquo ; i know thi continu to be an extrem difficult time for everyon & ndash ; and for israel & ndash ; and that & rsquo ; s whi i & rsquo ; m here , & rdquo ; bloomberg said in hi open remark . & ldquo ; i have great confid in israel & rsquo ; s futur & ndash ; becaus i believ in the power of those valu . & ldquo ; those valu have been attack befor & ndash ; and they will be attack again . but time and again , we have seen the power of peopl who believ in those valu to overcom the worst in human natur . that is america & rsquo ; s stori & ndash ; it is israel & rsquo ; s stori & ndash ; it & rsquo ; s the stori of the free world and it endur becaus it connect to someth deep within the human spirit that no govern , and no terrorist group , can kill . & rdquo ; seat at the roundtabl were mayor from all sector , jewish and arab alik , includ tzvika brot of bat yam ; rafik halabi of daliat al - carmel ; miriam fierberg of netanya ; mazen ghnaim of sakhnin ; rotem yadlin of gezer region council ; and ra daka of baka al - gharbiya . the group gather at the bloomberg sagol center for citi leadership at tel aviv univers to discuss a & ldquo ; new program that will help bring world - class expertis to support 65 local , & rdquo ; accord to bloomberg . tel aviv univers presid prof . ariel porat said , & ldquo ; the isra govern fail to provid it citizen with all kind of differ servic . the municip could and should play an import role . & rdquo ; inde , the program intend to see the develop of region innov hub design to serv each cluster & rsquo ; s commun and their respect municip and help them rebuild stronger , with particular focu on the hardest - hit region rather than individu citi becaus & ldquo ; region depend and interdepend amongst commun is such a big prioriti , & rdquo ; accord to jame anderson , who establish and lead the govern innov program at bloomberg philanthropi and is the architect of the organ & rsquo ; s work support mayor leadership and drive local innov in israel . speak to the post , he said commun & ldquo ; realli want our support ... to enabl and encourag that sort of region think as commun build back better . & rdquo ; the focu of bloomberg philanthropiesbloomberg philanthropi will focu specif on bring resourc and capabl in data scienc , the digit of public servic , program design , and collabor manag to develop and implement project emphas recoveri , resili , and region connect . the mayor and municip head in attend , in a close - door discuss , rais question and concern that may be met through the initi , and in turn , bloomberg & rsquo ; s team of profession is take feedback , appli necessari custom , and initi custom program specif to help each affect area . anderson said , & ldquo ; the govern innov program at bloomberg philanthropi realli come from mike and the fact that he is the onli major funder on the globe , who also happen to have been a mayor & rdquo ; and therefor & ldquo ; understand the uniqu role mayor can play in move us forward at the commun level , at the nation level , at the global level . & ldquo ; we start our work in israel 10 year ago , we brought our bloomberg innov model to tel aviv , jerusalem beersheba , and ... all three of those citi do extraordinari thing with that invest , & rdquo ; anderson explain , ad that they are develop new program accord to the need of citi around the world , and thi is inform their choic in israel , whether they learn it in kyiv due to the russia - ukrain war or in new orlean in the wake of hurrican sandi last decad . bloomberg reveal that & ldquo ; outsid of the unit state , we do more work with mayor in israel than in ani other countri in the world & ndash ; and that & rsquo ; s someth that i know would & rsquo ; ve made my mother and father veri proud . it & rsquo ; s time like thi & ndash ; time of crisi and conflict , when peopl are deepli worri about the futur & ndash ; that mayor are more import than ever . & rdquo ; inde , bloomberg & rsquo ; s person experi in the central of mayor leadership in time of crisi inform plenti of hi work with mayor program through bloomberg philanthropi . bloomberg wa mayor of new york citi from the begin of 2002 , shortli after the septemb 11 attack in 2001 , dure which four coordin islamist suicid terrorist attack were carri out by al - qaeda against the us , includ two plane crash into the twin tower of the world trade center . & ldquo ; i learn veri quickli that mayor have a uniqu opportun to be beacon of hope & ndash ; and to ralli peopl behind a share vision that unit peopl of all background and all religion , & rdquo ; bloomberg said . & ldquo ; they also have a power role to play in help commun recov and rebuild and to show resid that even in a crisi , govern can work for them and get thing done , whether that & rsquo ; s build infrastructur or get famili back in their home and school . & rdquo ;