altern prime minist benni gantz ( blue and white ) said he hope to speak soon with palestinian even though he did not believ that it wa possibl at thi time to final a peac deal with the palestinian author . & ldquo ; i hope i can meet with the palestinian in the near futur , & rdquo ; said gantz who is also the defens minist . there ha not been a meet between an isra defens minist and or prime minist in year . talk between israel and the pa broke down in 2014 and have never been reviv . but gantz hint at the possibl of a meet with the palestinian when he spoke thursday night at a special virtual zoom gather for jew who live in latin america to mark the eighth day of hanukkah , which wa sponsor by both the jewish agenc and the strateg affair ministri . it wa import to advanc normal with the palestinian , gantz said , even if , & ldquo ; it is veri hard at thi stage to arriv at a final statu agreement . & rdquo ; gantz clarifi hi posit on a number of issu relat to the conflict , note that he did & ldquo ; we will not withdraw to the pre - 1967 line . & rdquo ; with respect to jerusalem he quot from the psalm , state that israel would not give up on the idea of & ldquo ; jerusalem , a citi that is knit togeth . & rdquo ; in the west bank , he said , it is import to build onli on state land and not to build settler home on privat palestinian land . in respons to a question about the continu leadership of pa presid mahmoud abba , gantz said that there wa not a replac for him current . gantz laud prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s leadership with respect to the ratif of two normal deal with the unit arab emir and bahrain as well as the declar of three addit deal with sudan , morocco and bhutan . it is import to continu to work with netanyahu to continu to advanc these deal and to expand thi circl to includ normal deal with other countri , such as saudi arabia . it is also import to normal tie with the pa , he said , note that relat between the palestinian and israel had improv . secur tie between israel and the pa have resum and the pa ha agre to accept tax revenu israel had collect on it behalf . he spoke warmli about both us presid donald trump and us presid - elect joe biden , note that us israel tie were strong no matter what administr wa in washington . among the particip were jewish agenc chairman issac herzog , along with diaspora affair minist omer yankelevitch and minist in the defens ministri michael biton , both from the blue and white parti .