the unit nation secur council plan to hold it second close - door meet thi week on the escal violenc in the israel - palestinian conflict . the un secur council will publicli discuss the worsen violenc between israel and palestinian milit on sunday as well , diplomat said , reach a compromis over us object to a meet on friday . diplomat said the unit state , a close alli of israel , had initi suggest a virtual public meet could be held on tuesday . us secretari of state antoni blinken said on thursday he hope wait a few day would allow for & ldquo ; diplomaci to have some effect and to see if inde we get a real de - escal , & rdquo ; ad that washington wa & ldquo ; open to and support of a discuss , an open discuss , at the unit nation . & quot ; the 15 - member bodi met on monday in the aftermath of jerusalem violenc , but wa unabl to reach the consensu need for a joint statement . offici from individu member state , includ china which hold the unsc presid thi month , issu statement call on both isra and palestinian to de - escal the situat . five perman unsc member have veto power : the us , china , russia , franc and the unit kingdom . the trump administr gave it unqualifi support to israel , block ani potenti statement and resolut critic of it action . us presid joe biden ha sworn to also support israel at the un . washington delay secur council effort to issu a public statement on monday , fear that it could be harm to behind - the - scene effort to end the violenc , accord to diplomat and a sourc familiar with the us strategi . speak on condit of anonym , the sourc said washington is & quot ; activ engag in diplomaci behind the scene with all parti to achiev a ceasefir & quot ; and wa concern that a council statement might be counterproduct at the moment . that statement would have express concern over the jerusalem violenc ; call on israel to ceas jewish settlement activ , demolit and evict ; and urg gener restraint . thi next unsc meet come amid the heaviest barrag of gaza rocket fire sinc the 2014 gaza war . the idf ha launch intens militari counter strike . & quot ; the unit nation is work with all relev parti to de - escal the situat urgent , & quot ; spokesperson stephan dujarr said on tuesday . he said secretari - gener antonio guterr is sadden by & quot ; the increasingli larg number of casualti , includ children . & quot ; & quot ; isra secur forc must exercis maximum restraint and calibr their use of forc . the indiscrimin launch of rocket and mortar toward isra popul center is unaccept , & quot ; dujarr told report . palestinian author prime minist moham shtayyeh call on the unsc to take seriou step to halt isra strike on the gaza strip and it attack against palestinian in jerusalem , includ in the sheikh jarrah neighborhood and the templ mount , known to muslim as al - haram al - sharif .