the annual jerusalem day flag parad , set for wednesday afternoon , will proceed along it tradit rout , mirror the path of previou year , from central jerusalem to the western wall via the histor avenu of the old citi . & nbsp ; '' mani offic will be deploy befor and dure the flag parad . the polic will work to secur the crowd and regul pedestrian and vehicl traffic in the area , especi near the old citi , '' israel polic said in a statement . '' the purpos of the polic activ is to maintain the routin life as much as possibl and to allow the parad particip , as well as other pedestrian and worshipp of all religion , to reach their destin safe and secur . the polic will work to prevent ani friction or violenc of ani kind . crowd control enter the old citi will be carri out accord to the maximum allow capac at the western wall plaza . '' the polic urg flag parad particip and the public to follow polic instruct , avoid physic or verbal violenc , and allow the event to proceed safe while strictli adher to order and law . ani disrupt or act of violenc will be dealt with firmli by the polic . '' scuffl in last year ' s jerusalem day flag paradelast year , approxim 50 , 000 isra gather for the jerusalem day flag march , with polic work throughout the day to break up scuffl that broke out between jew , arab , and polic , particularli in the muslim quarter of the old citi . thi year , under the shadow of the ongo war between israel and hama in gaza , tension are even higher . & nbsp ; a polic forc compris over 3 , 000 offic from the jerusalem district , border polic , addit reinforc , and volunt will be deploy citywid . & nbsp ; event asid from the flag parad includ the memori ceremoni for ethiopian jewish immigr , the state ceremoni at ammunit hill , both on wednesday , and the shmuel hanavi pilgrimag , where marcher proceed to the tomb of samuel the prophet north of the citi , pass through sever arab neighborhood . '' the israel polic ' s prepar will focu on the rout lead to the navi samuel compound , with increas polic activ in the area for secur , public order mainten , and traffic direct to eas the arriv of the public and prevent traffic congest at the site entranc , '' the polic state .