emer pressburg , the hungarian - jewish director and screenwrit who built a career in berlin , fled the nazi regim in the 1930 , but unlik mani of hi european jewish contemporari who went to hollywood , pressburg immigr to britain . there , he team up with anoth up - and - come filmmak , michael powel , and the two collabor on a seri of wildli popular film that becam classic and influenc a gener of young american director , among them martin scorses , who produc and narrat a new documentari about their work , made in england : the film of powel and pressburg , which premier at the berlinal , the berlin intern film festiv . in thi documentari , scorses , who will receiv an honorari golden bear award for hi career thi year , and who is famou for talk fast , can & rsquo ; t say enough about how these film , which he first saw on televis as a sickli child in new york , blew hi mind and shape hi sensibl as a filmmak . their movi , as thi documentari show in beauti detail , were visual imagin and excit in a way that could appeal to a young boy , but also featur deepli romant and philosoph theme about choos a spiritu reward life over materi . they sometim showcas music and danc , use visual rich to highlight the music , and often their film were veri funni in a quintessenti british way . the movi they made togeth includ the red shoe , the fantast and larger - than - life stori of a ballerina ( play by real - life ballet dancer moira shearer ) who must choos between love and danc , which becam the favorit film of a gener of danc - love littl girl . their opera adapt , tale of hoffmann , featur evoc cinematographi that make the drama of the opera music come to life in a way that influenc scorses to becom a director , as he explain in the film . they had a few year make british propaganda film to help moral dure world war ii , includ the life and death of colonel blimp , a gentl comedi - romanc that celebr british sweet and eccentr . in addit , they made the quirki romanc i know where i & rsquo ; m go ! set on an island off the scottish coast , and mani other movi of british life that were unlik anyth made by ani other filmmak . focu of david hinton ' s documentaryth documentari , direct by david hinton , deal with their work relationship , in which pressburg , who didn & rsquo ; t speak english till he wa in hi 30 , outlin the intric screenplay and creat the charact , while powel wrote the dialogu and handl most on - the - set direct chore . scorses seem more interest in powel and hi revolutionari visual flourish and paint pressburg as the more & ldquo ; practic & rdquo ; of the partner , who saw the valu in compromis with studio who tri to rein in their vision . the movi doesn & rsquo ; t examin pressburg & rsquo ; s life as a jewish refuge and hi loss of famili member , nor doe it consid how these experi might have led him to a more practic approach to hi filmmak career . but it doe detail how their partnership wa as deep and emot charg as ani marriag . the movi portray their breakup as sad , but their love and respect for each other stay strong , and , after a period when they were virtual forgotten , they later enjoy recognit for their achiev , spearhead by a younger gener of filmmak such as scorses and franci ford coppola . those who are interest in a more detail look at pressburg & rsquo ; s life would be advis to track down the 1995 documentari the make of an englishman , which wa direct by hi grandson kevin macdonald ( the last king of scotland ) and produc by anoth grandson , andrew macdonald ( the produc of trainspot ) . while they knew their grandfath , he wa a distant if admir figur in their live , but hi love of and filmmak talent were pass down . the make of an englishman spend quit a bit of time on hi earli life , show how , after leav hungari for germani , he had to sleep in the park while tri to break into the german film industri , one of the most develop in the world at the time . it also show the difficult moment when he realiz he had to flee the nazi regim and hi decis to , as the titl suggest , make himself into an english director who had a sensibl as british as ani nativ - born englishman . hi grandson present him as an enigmat but fascin figur .