if elect were held today without chang in the parti lineup , the nation uniti parti led by benni gantz would win 30 seat , becom the largest faction in the knesset , accord to a new 13 poll from sunday . accord to the poll , likud led by benjamin netanyahu would slightli strengthen compar to previou poll , win 20 seat . yesh atid led by yair lapid would receiv 15 seat . yisrael beytenu led by avigdor liberman strength in the knesset would grow to 11 seat , while j otzma yehudit led by itamar ben gvir would receiv 9 seat . sha led by ary deri would win 8 seat , while the religi zionist parti led by bezalel smotrich , and unit torah judaism led by yitzhak goldknopf each would gain 7 seat . hadash - ta & rsquo ; al led by ayman odeh win 5 seat , and ra ' am led by mansour abba garner 4 seat . n13 report further claim that in contrast to previou survey , the labor parti - which ha not yet elect a new leader - would win 4 seat , while the meretz , new hope which is led by gideon sa & rsquo ; ar , and balad parti would not pass the elector threshold . the & nbsp ; & ldquo ; chang govern & rdquo ; parti collect receiv 64 seat , the n13 report state . meanwhil , the netanyahu bloc strengthen compar to previou survey , amass 51 seat . in the middl stand the hadash - ta & rsquo ; al . shift mandat pictur & ldquo ; the mandat pictur shift dramat when examin a scenario where a new center - right parti , led by former prime minist naftali bennettt , former mossad chief yossi cohen , and gideon sa ' ar , emerg , along with a new left - wing parti led by yair golan , & rdquo ; n13 & rsquo ; s report state . in thi scenario , the new parti led by bennettt , cohen , and sa ' ar would win 32 seat - becom the largest faction in the knesset . howev , the nation uniti parti led by gantz would drop to onli 15 seat . likud , led by netanyahu , would also drop to 15 seat in thi scenario . the left - wing parti led by yair golan would win 9 seat . n13 & rsquo ; s survey also show that yesh atid , led by lapid , would weaken due to the format of the centrist right parti and the new left - wing parti & ndash ; and would have onli 8 seat . yisrael beytenu also weaken in the survey and won 7 seat . addit , accord to n13 , in thi scenario otzma yehudit gain 8 seat , sha and unit torah judaism each receiv 6 seat - and the religi zionist parti slightli weaken to 5 seat . the survey also examin what is the best time for elect accord to isra , n13 report . accord to the result , 33 % of respond believ that elect should be held by the end of 2024 , while 30 % think they should take place immedi . in total , 63 % of isra believ that elect should be held befor octob 2026 . addit , a larg major , 68 % , do not believ netanyahu ' s statement that israel stand on the verg of victori in the gaza war . onli 16 % trust the prime minist ' s statement , while 16 % respond that they are unsur . final , respond were ask whether prime minist netanyahu should dismiss nation secur minist itamar ben gvir follow hi respons to the iranian attack dub ' drone ' . 48 % of respond believ netanyahu should dismiss ben gvir , while 35 % think he should not . 17 % respond that they are unsur .