isra secur forc will be given a & ldquo ; free hand & rdquo ; to conduct ani oper activ , prime minist naftali bennett said follow anoth day of palestinian riot in jerusalem & rsquo ; s old citi and on the templ mount . israel & rsquo ; s main goal is to provid secur to all isra citizen , the prime minist ad follow a situat assess held with defens minist benni gantz , foreign minist yair lapid , public secur minist omer bar lev , idf chief of staff lt .- gen . aviv kohavi , israel polic chief kobi shabtai , shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) director ronen bar and other secur establish offici . despit everi effort by israel to enabl freedom of worship to palestinian dure the month of ramadan , secur forc will continu to act against rioter who tri to disrupt public order , bennett said . clash broke out on the templ mount between isra secur forc and arab worship on sunday morn as jewish visitor enter the site on the first intermedi day of passov and hundr of arab youth began gather stone and block pathway . rocket siren sound in nahal oz on sunday afternoon , with local resid report hear an explos . despit the report from local , the idf announc that the siren were a fals alarm . earli on sunday morn , palestinian media report that isra polic had set up checkpoint at the entranc to the old citi of jerusalem and the templ mount , onli allow worship through after check their id card . shortli befor jewish visitor began enter the site on sunday , israel polic enter the complex , push arab visitor toward the dome of the rock and al - aqsa mosqu . video share by al - qastal , a palestinian news site focus on jerusalem , show secur forc close gate and close the door of the dome of the rock and prayer hall at the site after push worship insid . israel polic issu a statement say they enter the site after hundr of arab youth began gather stone and block pathway in an attempt to disturb the peac . & ldquo ; hundr of law - break young peopl disturb the peac in the templ mount area and insid the mosqu dure violent riot , which have noth to do with the sanctiti of the holiday and the holi place . these violent outlaw are the one who defil and desecr the holi place and tri to harm innoc civilian and secur forc , & rdquo ; the statement said . & ldquo ; unfortun , on social media fals inform and misinform is dissemin in relat to event , while throw sand in the eye of the public in an attempt to incit and agit , & rdquo ; it ad . & ldquo ; these fals public , some of which have no grip on realiti , tri to creat improp legitimaci for throw stone and fire firework insid a hous of prayer and at policemen and civilian and misrepres the holi place and especi the templ mount . & rdquo ; there were 19 arab injur in the clash , with five transfer to hospit , accord to the jerusalem red crescent . تغطية صحفية : `` نداءات استغاثة عبر سماعات المسجد الأقصى إثر استمرار اعتداءات قوات الاحتـــلال على المصلين ومحاصرتهم `` pic . twitter . com / ux7ft8z9n & mdash ; alqast القسطل ( @ alqastalp ) april 17 , 2022video share from the scene show arab call on palestinian in the gaza strip and the west bank to support them , alongsid chant in support of hama say , & ldquo ; with our soul and blood , we will redeem you , oh , aqsa . & rdquo ; jewish worship walk in jerusalem & rsquo ; s old citi were attack by arab assail on sunday morn . video show the assail hit at least one jewish victim on the head . although the worship did not requir medic treatment , two suspect were arrest in connect with the incid . a total of 728 jew visit the templ mount on sunday morn , accord to the templ mount administr . the compound will be open to jewish visitor from 7 a . m . to 10 : 30 a . m . throughout the intermedi day of passov , includ thursday . jewish visitor are not allow to bring religi item with them or to pray on the templ mount , accord to polic regul , although quiet , subtl prayer without bow ha seemingli been permit by polic in recent year . amid the unrest on the templ mount , palestinian rioter threw stone at a number of public buse near the old citi , damag window and lightli injur a number of commut . nine suspect were arrest dure the unrest on the mount and in the old citi , four of whom were involv in throw stone at buse . al - aqsa tension shake coalitionmeanwhil , the islam movement & rsquo ; s shura council decid on sunday even that ra & rsquo ; am would suspend it membership in the knesset and coalit in protest against the situat at al - aqsa . the parti call on the joint list to do the same until a solut is reach about al - aqsa , ad that it wa readi to take a decis for the collect resign of the arab parti from the knesset . ra & rsquo ; am mk wale taha had told channel 13 on sunday afternoon , & ldquo ; i would expect the govern to behav differ toward the jew who came up to provok at al - aqsa mosqu , but it allow sever hundr fascist to do so . the price will probabl be the dissolut of the coalit . & rdquo ; the decis and warn from taha came after mk mazen ghanaim warn bennett in a letter on friday that he would pull out of the coalit if polic activ on the templ mount did not ceas . the offic of palestinian author presid mahmoud abba call on palestinian to arriv at al - aqsa mosqu in order to & ldquo ; defend it . & rdquo ; he warn that the action of isra secur forc were a & ldquo ; danger escal , the repercuss of which are to be born by the isra govern alon . & rdquo ; jordan & rsquo ; s king abdullah ii stress on sunday afternoon the need for israel to respect the & ldquo ; histor and legal statu - quo at al - aqsa mosqu / al - haram al - sharif and ceas all illeg and provoc measur that violat it and could push toward further escal . & rdquo ; the jordanian monarch direct hi govern to continu region and intern effort and commun to & ldquo ; stop isra escal . & rdquo ; amid the tension , otzma yehudit head itamar ben - gvir warn on sunday that he had sent a messag to the command of the jerusalem polic district say that if polic were not given a free hand to act against rioter , he would establish a bureau at the damascu gate . last year and earlier thi year , ben - gvir establish a bureau in the sheikh jarrah / shimon hatzadik neighborhood of east jerusalem amid tension there . rabbi of the western wall and holi site rabbi shmuel rabinowitz condemn the violenc on sunday , say , & ldquo ; [ i ] strongli condemn the sever attack and calam thi morn against innoc jew on their way to the morn prayer of the intermediari day at the western wall . thi is an act of terror on the path of peac in a citi that sanctifi freedom of religion , and anyon who desir should be allow to pray in peac and secur . & rdquo ; on saturday night , arab put up a banner on the templ mount / haram al - sharif read & ldquo ; hama call on you for a gener mobil and to push out the herd of settler who are threaten to storm al - aqsa . & rdquo ; isra forc enter the complex later in the night to remov the banner and arrest a person there . clash broke out between arab and isra secur forc in front of the jerusalem magistr & rsquo ; s court on saturday night as well , after palestinian media report that isra author had decid not to releas some of those detain dure the riot at al - aqsa on friday . joint list mk ahm tibi wa present at the scene . earli on sunday morn , video wa share on palestinian media show group of detaine in multipl locat be releas , although at least some remain in custodi , accord to the report . hama offici khale mashal state on saturday night that the movement had told the qatari foreign minist it wa demand that sacrific not be brought by jew at the site , that isra forc not & ldquo ; storm & rdquo ; jenin and that those arrest at al - aqsa on friday be releas . mashal ad that the foreign minist had told hama leader ismail haniyeh that israel wa not interest in an escal , and that hama had respond that it wa also not interest in a step - up in violenc but that it & ldquo ; had it respons and the escal in jerusalem must be stop . & rdquo ; arab clash with isra forc in nazareth and the west bankin nazareth , arab - isra clash with polic dure a demonstr about friday & rsquo ; s clash at al - aqsa . at least 20 arrest were report by palestinian media . video from the scene show rioter burn larg fire in the middl of a street in the citi . a palestinian wa shot by isra forc near tulkarm on saturday night and five other were arrest at the scene , accord to palestinian report . clash broke out in beit iksa , northwest of jerusalem , with isra forc fire tear ga to dispers rioter , accord to palestinian report .