ch .- supt . nivi ohana , the command respons for secur at the supernova music festiv at re ' im near the gaza border , share the harrow event that unfold on octob 7 . at 6 : 30 a . m . , have just finish hi night shift , he wa wait for hi replac when rocket siren were heard . '' we saw the rocket abov us , and i decid to stop the music , '' ohana recal . `` i told the peopl that the parti wa over , and we need to leav quickli - some manag to escap . '' head of the music festiv , ohana sought addit secur and had insist on more arm personnel . `` i wa the event command , '' he said . `` the idf approv , and despit no unusu warn , i got 42 polic offic on the scene , eight of whom were from yasam [ riot control ] . in retrospect , thi decis save live . '' as the on - site rocket siren went off , ohana order the music to stop , order the audienc to get down amid the sound of siren and gunfir . ohana ' s decis to halt the parti allow hundr to leav safe . after receiv a report of a vehicl shot in the urim area at 6 : 50 a . m . , ohana understood just how sever the situat wa . then , more report came in , indic that terrorist shot at civilian in the gaza border area . ohana quickli took charg , order emerg road ' open and the evacu of civilian . battl hama terrorist in ofakimohana then heard report of terrorist near ofakim . when hi replac arriv , he order him to take over dispers the crowd without wast time gather equip . after that , he and anoth offic went to the ofakim area , pass by the scene of carnag at re ' im and urim . then , he got a call from a polic offic in ofakim , who said there wa a shootout erupt within the citi . the polic offic enter the citi with hi gun drawn and head to the neighborhood where the battl wa be fought , be met with nonstop gunfir and even an rpg . '' i recogn my polic offic , some of them wear flip - flop or in their underwear , and next to them were civilian arm with knive who join them - they just jump out of the hous , '' he recount . ohana took command of the situat , elimin terrorist despit be wound by shrapnel . unconsci , he later discov the impact of hi earlier insist on addit polic presenc at the parti . howev , some of those veri polic offic would end up kill in the fight with hama . evacu to a hospit , ohana , fuel by determin , return to the station with a disloc shoulder and shrapnel wound . despit the loss , he emphas the heroism of the polic offic , declar them the first and last line of defens for israel . `` if not for their heroism , thousand more civilian would have been murder , '' ohana conclud . the jerusalem post and onefamili are work togeth to help support the victim of the hama massacr and the soldier of israel who have been draft to ensur that it never happen again . becom a partner in thi project by donat to onefamili & gt ; & gt ;