settler vandal store , home and vehicl along rout 60 in the west bank palestinian town of huwara on monday in a violent attack that left three palestinian injur . the armi said that `` there wa an alterc between settler and palestinian , in which sever palestinian vehicl and busi in huwara were damag . '' `` the alterc began when a number of vehicl travel in a convoy on rout 60 through the huwara threw stone `` caus extens damag , the armi said . polic said it wa investig the incid . settler from yitzhar threw stone at palestinian and vehicl in the west bank town of huwarra injur at least 3 peopl includ a 3yr old boy . the idf said they are look into the incid http : // t . co / 3bw1t32vx5 & mdash ; anna ahronheim ( @ aahronheim ) januari 24 , 2022 the left - wing ngo yesh din charg that the attack occur in full view of the armi , which often heavili patrol that section of rout 60 , a road heavili use by both isra and palestinian vehicl . anyon travel in the area must use that road , which goe straight through the town and is flank with store and shop in that section of the rout . yesh din provid the media with photo and video from the attack . it said that the group of settler arriv in a convoy of car accompani by the idf , from the direct of the tapuah junction , and that the convoy play loud music . the convoy stop in huwara , which is near nablu . those in the vehicl threw stone at palestinian car , store and home , shatter window and injur three palestinian , yesh din said . & ldquo ; in broad daylight , under the guis of protect from the soldier , a convoy of settler is conduct a pogrom against the palestinian , & rdquo ; yesh din execut director lior amihai charg . the event come just day after settler attack left - wing activist in the same region of the west bank , beat them with club and shovel and torch one of their vehicl . defens minist benni gantz ( blue and white ) condemn nationalist violenc . & ldquo ; the recent incid involv nationalist motiv violenc in judea and samaria are grave and i intend to act firmli against them . whoever hurl rock , ignit vehicl and use weapon [ for the purpos of violenc ] is a terrorist and will be treat as such , & rdquo ; gantz said . & ldquo ; i have recent initi sever meet to discuss thi issu , and we current find ourselv at the height of the process to strengthen our troop on the ground , to build forc with the polic and the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) , and to determin oper and legal proceed vi - a - vi such incid . & rdquo ;