despit the belliger statement of hama and palestinian islam jihad over the past three day , the two group are nevertheless believ to be look for a way to end the fight with israel . but hama and pij know that they can & rsquo ; t reach ani deal with israel without the bless of their patron in iran . in the past few day , hama and pij leader spoke to iranian offici about the latest flare - up of violenc . it is unclear , howev , whether tehran is interest at thi stage in a ceasefir . hama leader ismail haniyeh , who is base in qatar , told iranian foreign minist javad zarif dure a phone call on monday that effort were be made & ldquo ; on the diplomat and field level to halt isra assault on our peopl in jerusalem and the gaza strip . & rdquo ; haniyeh wa refer to egyptian and qatari mediat effort to reach a ceasefir with israel . haniyeh wa obvious seek iran & rsquo ; s approv of a possibl truce that could be reach under the auspic of egypt and qatar . hama and pij offici have told egyptian , qatari and other mediat that they would be readi to stop their attack on israel onc israel stop it militari offens in the gaza strip . musa abu marzouk , deputi head of the hama politburo , said on wednesday that egyptian and qatari mediat effort have thu far been unsuccess . abu marzouk & rsquo ; s statement came amid unconfirm report that egypt wa plan to send an egyptian secur deleg to the gaza strip to hold talk with leader of hama and pij about way of reach a new ceasefir with israel . abu marzouk told the khaleej onlin news websit that hama wa hold contact with sever arab and islam countri about the situat in the gaza strip . & ldquo ; there wa talk about mediat effort that are appreci by our brother in egypt and qatar , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; we appreci their care for our palestinian peopl , but these mediat effort have not culmin in a return to calm until now . & rdquo ; abu marzouk accus israel of & ldquo ; ignit & rdquo ; the fight . israel , he said , & ldquo ; must stop and retreat from it step , as it is the onli parti that bear full respons . & rdquo ; the hama leadership told the mediat that it messag wa clear , which is to & ldquo ; strengthen the posit of the palestinian peopl in jerusalem and at al - aqsa mosqu , and the steadfast of famili threaten with expuls from their home in sheikh jarrah , & rdquo ; abu marzouk ad . the hama offici wa later quot by palestinian news websit as say that the european have also contact hi group to explor the possibl of reach a ceasefir with israel . & ldquo ; the european contact us and ask us to stop fire short - rang missil [ at israel ] or els they will not particip in the reconstruct of the gaza strip , & rdquo ; abu marzouk said . & ldquo ; i told them we will stop our short - rang missil and use long - rang missil . & rdquo ; abu marzouk did not provid detail about the ident of the european who reportedli contact hama . meanwhil , hama on wednesday admit for the first time that a number of it senior militari command were kill in isra airstrik . in a statement , hama & rsquo ; s militari wing , izzadin al - qassam brigad , name bassem issa as one the command kill by israel . it said that issa and & ldquo ; a group of hi brother , the leader and mujahedin ( warrior ) were martyr dure the occup & rsquo ; s aggress . & rdquo ; abu hamza , a spokesperson for pij & rsquo ; s militari wing , al - qud brigad , said on wednesday that the gaza - base terror group will & ldquo ; continu the jihad and will not retreat , regardless of the price and sacrific . & rdquo ; he said that hi group fire 100 missil toward tel aviv at 5 : 00 a . m . & ldquo ; we were abl to respond to the continu of the aggress and the target of civilian and mujahedin , & rdquo ; abu hamza said in a statement . hama and pij leader in the gaza strip , meanwhil , have gone into hide , leav the task of secur a new truce with israel to their repres in qatar and lebanon . the gaza - base leader , who are afraid of be target by israel , know that their fate is now in the hand of the mullah in tehran .