women have been present in the isra art scene from it begin & ndash ; artist such as aviva uri , esther peretz arad , anna ticho , leah nikel , and ruth shlo . their role in build the art world in israel seem to me as signific as the impact of femal pioneer ( halutzot ) in creat the state of israel , the role of the first femal prime minist , golda meir , and ( up to the present day ) the import of femal soldier serv in the idf . howev , even though the role of women ha been so crucial in israel , and the feminist art movement wa not as strong as in other countri , it took femal artist decad to be equal repres by galleri and museum . ruth marku is a retir lectur in tel aviv univers & rsquo ; s histori of art depart and founder of the associ for women & rsquo ; s art and gender research in israel . in her articl & ldquo ; artist : yishuv and israel : 1920 - 1970 & rdquo ; in the shalvi / hyman encyclopedia of jewish women , she say that it is onli sinc the 1990 that & ldquo ; the number of particip in exhibit in the variou museum and galleri wa divid equal between men and women , with the women at time even in the major . & rdquo ; today , i even dare to say that women domin isra art . therefor , especi on intern women & rsquo ; s day , i & rsquo ; ve chosen for the magazin three women artist who , even dure the war , are constantli activ . they agre to answer my three question : what inspir you ? what do you call art ? what , in your opinion , make your artwork differ from that of other artist ? batia shanibatia shani is a multimedia artist , emphas embroideri , mail art , paint , and collag . she is the mother of three and grandmoth of six . she use materi and cloth previous use , includ idf uniform . shani embroid text , imag , number , and amorph shape . each of the garment hold imag and word ; for exampl , the name and age of women murder by their partner . her art deal with social issu , violenc against women and famili , peopl in crisi , refuge , and recent , the pain silenc toward the sexual victim of the oct . 7 massacr . in her latest work , it is embroid : & ldquo ; me too . unless you & rsquo ; re a jew . & rdquo ; born and rais in haifa to a famili of holocaust survivor who came to israel just after ww ii , shani wa expect to get an educ and start a & ldquo ; normal job . & rdquo ; so , befor becom an artist , she work as a social worker . art wa alway present in her life , but it wa onli in her mid - thirti that she decid to focu complet on art , studi at the royal school of needlework in london , and later in israel at the hamidrasha school of art , beit berl colleg , kalmania . & ldquo ; the studi help me understand that embroideri wa my languag , & rdquo ; she said . embroideri as a craft wa deepli root in her famili tradit . when she wa a girl , she watch her aunt embroid . she chang it into art . sinc the 1990 , shani ha exhibit her work at mani art fair , galleri , and museum around the world . now she is prepar two solo exhibit . & ldquo ; i speak gibberish to you & rdquo ; is set to open on may 9 in her studio at 6 hapelech street in tel aviv . a show at the univers of haifa ( name not yet reveal ) will open on june 2 . inspir : everyth . in gener , my work is improvis ; i don & rsquo ; t have ani plan when i start my journey with my needl [ there is a dress full of stori that she work on for a year ] . my inspir come from the piec of fabric that i start to work with , but it must be materi with some histori . in mani of my work , i want to preserv the memori of my late mother . i am inspir by my emot and by what i see around me . for exampl , in my upcom exhibit , i will reflect on the situat in israel . i felt a lack of word to express what wa happen in israel [ last year ] , so i use embroideri as & lsquo ; gibberish & rsquo ; languag . i thought it wa the worst moment in my countri : i didn & rsquo ; t realiz it could get much wors ... mean of art : for me , as a viewer & ndash ; becaus i love see art by other & ndash ; it is someth that touch me . of cours , it come through the door of visual , but [ it ha to be ] someth that will play on my emot thread . shani & rsquo ; s artwork : first of all , i refus to look for someth uniqu , someth that is onli mine . but , of cours , it make me veri happi when someon recogn my embroideri and envelop & ndash ; which are also characterist in my work ; these are my fingerprint . i think mayb the amount of sensit to the detail , mayb my abil to express sad and pain thing is what make my work differ . i am a feminist artist , so i show thing that caus the discrimin of women . i tri not to put , as a headlin , that my work is polit involv , but i have a lot to say about polit . i am deal with catastroph , with grief . the current war ... the outcom is veri aesthet , often veri color , but when peopl come closer to it , they notic the text that i embroid , which is veri hard . batiashani . com / noa yekutieliat a young age , noa yekuti is alreadi an intern accomplish artist . for over a decad she ha had variou solo show and particip in group exhibit all over the world . her work are in the collect of the israel museum in jerusalem , the tel aviv museum of art , and variou privat collect . she live and work in tel aviv , lo angel , and new york . her solo exhibit & ldquo ; no longer & ndash ; not yet & rdquo ; is current on view at brooklyn & rsquo ; s intern studio & amp ; curatori program ( iscp ) through june 21 . in april , she will particip in a group exhibit & ldquo ; common ground : isra art meet archaeolog & rdquo ; at the israel museum . yekuti come from a multicultur famili ( japanes - american - isra ) and use her rich heritag in her work . she combin a divers of materi that , she say , & ldquo ; echo long for unknown singular origin and fractur notion of home . & rdquo ; she engag in variou medium , such as instal , assemblag , and her signatur manual paper - cut techniqu , about which , she said , & ldquo ; it mirror my artist essenc . it embodi the japanes concept of & lsquo ; ma & rsquo ; & ndash ; emphas the signific of miss or what is miss . i am drawn to the unseen , reflect overlook narr and the complex of cultur assimil . the act of it irrevers reduct mirror life , leav scar that prompt reflect . & rdquo ; inspir : as a multicultur artist of japanes - american - isra background , i natur seek to bridg between cultur and languag in my work . i am inspir to explor new languag or form of express to address traumat and complex subject such as the social - polit realiti in israel - palestin , immigr , and cyclic pattern of destruct . & nbsp ; through the medium of manual cut paper , i am compel to creat space and artwork imbu with a deliber contrast aesthet . i attempt to offer an altern languag & ndash ; one that is more vulner , feminin , and nuanc & ndash ; in observ and reflect on the harsh realiti we confront . thi counter the rapid pace and predominantli western , masculin discours that often creat thi realiti , to begin with , and is perpetu the continu destruct pattern . i am inspir to creat space that can hold more than one narr , more than one absolut truth & ndash ; to question how we tell stori rather than tell a stori . mean of art : to me , art encompass ani endeavor that challeng what we often accept as & lsquo ; the natur of thing & rsquo ; or & lsquo ; establish perspect . & rsquo ; it & rsquo ; s not about resist for it own sake but rather about suggest and provid fresh viewpoint to comprehend the realiti surround us . art act as a bubbl within which i can uniqu unfold the intricaci of realiti , and then reconnect with the broader world through my art again . it serv as a medit space where my unconsci take over , lead me to differ way of think about the given . yekuti & rsquo ; s artwork : in my perspect , what set my artwork apart is that i am not afraid of embrac limin space . often , there & rsquo ; s a reluct to engag with these space of in - between : those that are almost , not here nor there , or unclear , even though they constitut much of our live experi . in my practic , i am deepli intrigu by the notion of craft environ where we collect explor limin , view it not as a mere interim state await conclus but as a novel and fertil terrain in it own right . & nbsp ; come from a multicultur background devoid of a histor share past & ndash ; be both japanes and isra & ndash ; i find myself natur attun to multipl without experienc discomfort . in a world mark by polar , i see the creation of space , where multipl enrich rather than confus , as a crucial aspect of the human experi . www . noayekuti . com / ella tauba self - taught artist , ella taub & ndash ; in her sculptur , paint , relief work , print , and draw & ndash ; focus on the natur of chang in a feminin bodi , also oscil between histor appreci shape and contemporari beauti imag . taub explor differ femal role in her art and the evolut of self - imag . taub work with differ materi , sometim includ bodi - like one , and metal chain . & ldquo ; i collect materi for my work from my surround ; each of my work is connect to the place and time in which i creat . often , a materi from which the sculptur emerg give the work & rsquo ; s narr , & rdquo ; she told the magazin . some of her work are veri person and base on intim relat with herself and other . in her recent februari solo show in tel aviv & ldquo ; what i didn & rsquo ; t wear , & rdquo ; taub refer to her close connect with her mother ( with whom , at age five , she made aliyah from st . petersburg , russia ) but also enter into a dialogu with her futur daughter , whom she might have one day . taub ha exhibit in israel and berlin . her work are on view until march 9 at the group show & ldquo ; bread and rose 18 & rdquo ; at the bread and rose galleri in tel aviv . inspir : my artist journey is fuel by the intric danc of relationship & ndash ; those between my inner self , my corpor form , and the world around me . the allur lie in explor the ever - shift nuanc of the feminin physiqu , it narr etch by life & rsquo ; s twist and turn , and it reson across divers cultur landscap . moreov , person narr , like the potent symbol of freedom evok by chain in select piec , serv as potent wellspr of inspir . my art serv as a mirror reflect the interplay of inner dialogu , societ construct , and the relentless quest for liber . mean of art : art , to me , is a boundless realm where creativ intertwin with introspect . it manifest in myriad form . art is not mere about aesthet ; it & rsquo ; s a profound explor of complex theme , a challeng to establish norm , and a conduit for stir the soul . it & rsquo ; s a process that transcend boundari , beckon viewer into a realm of dialogu , reflect , and interpret . taub & rsquo ; s artwork : my artist voic reson distinctli through it intim explor of the feminin form and it intric relationship with the self - imag percept and bodi express societi . through solitari figur and intric symbol , i aim to evok theme of independ , resili , and the societ gaze upon women & ndash ; and question histor patriarch myth by infus of person narr , and materi , that are collect with a connect to the space and time . ultim , my art distinguish itself through it poignant explor of the human experi , beckon viewer into a silent dialogu . ellataub . com / 