western democrat leader will soon follow israel in be haul befor the intern crimin court unless a way is found to prevent the issuanc of warrant against the leader of the jewish state , prime minist benjamin netanyahu told abc on tuesday . & ldquo ; everi democraci will be pull into the [ icc ] dock . we & rsquo ; re first , and you & rsquo ; re next . peopl understand that , & rdquo ; netanyahu said , as he appeal to western power to interven in an attempt to halt such action . he spoke one day after icc chief prosecutor karim khan announc that he sought arrest warrant for top isra and hama leader , includ netanyahu , and defens minist yoav gallant for crime against human due to idf action in the gaza war . & ldquo ; that ha to be stop . and that ha to be resist . and i can assur you , the vast major of isra and all respons leader in the world understand that thi should be resist , & rdquo ; he said . the icc pre - trial chamber ha yet to approv khan & rsquo ; s request . if it doe , the warrant would be the first issu against leader of a democrat countri . israel and the unit state are not among the 124 countri that are parti to the rome statut which govern the icc . if warrant were issu netanyahu and gallant would risk arrest if they travel to ani of those countri , the norwegian news site nettavisen report that the countri & rsquo ; s foreign minist espen barth eid said that if the warrant were issu , hi countri would arrest netanyahu and that he believ all the other signatori to the rome statut would do the same . netanyahu told abc he wa not worri about the threat of arrest . & ldquo ; i ' m not concern at all about our statu . i think that the prosecutor should be concern about hi statu becaus he ' s realli turn the icc into a pariah institut . & ldquo ; peopl are just not go to take it serious . they see it as a politic thing . i hope that the judg don ' t turn don ' t confirm what he say becaus that will make them into a kangaroo court , & rdquo ; he said . isra ha been particularli outrag over the equiti khan drew between israel and the terror organ hama , particularli in light of the group & rsquo ; s octob 7th invas of israel in which it rape , dismemb , and burn aliv it victim . khan is & ldquo ; creat a fals symmetri between the democrat elect leader of israel and the terrorist chieftain , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . it & rsquo ; s akin to an icc chief prosecutor seek arrest warrant for both us and al - qaeda leader in the aftermath of the septemb 11 attack on the twin tower in new york in 2001 , netanyahu said . it is also akin to the issuanc of warrant against both former us presid franklin delano roosevelt and former german chancellor adolf hitler , he ad . thi is & ldquo ; a hit job . it & rsquo ; s not seriou , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . fan the flame of antisemitismh accus khan of & ldquo ; pour gasolin on the fire of anti - semit that are spread around the world becaus he is attack the one and onli jewish state & ldquo ; which is fight an existenti war against hama . norway wa not the onli countri to back the court . the french foreign ministri said it support the icc & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; independ and the fight against impun in all situat . & rdquo ; as far as israel is concern , it will be up to the court ' s pre - trial chamber to decid whether to issu these warrant , after examin the evid put forward by the prosecutor , '' the ministri said . foreign minist stephan sejourn , howev , told the nation assembl on tuesday that the `` simultan `` warrant request must not establish an `` equival `` between hama and israel . '' on one side you have a terrorist group that congratul itself on the oct . 7 attack ... and on the other side you have a democraci , israel , that must respect intern law while conduct a war it did not start , '' sejourn said . polish prime minist donald tusk stood behind israel , state , & ldquo ; an attempt to show that the prime minist of israel and the leader of terrorist organ are the same , and the involv of intern institut in thi , is unaccept , '' tusk told a news confer . the unit state ha been particularli vocal in it condemn of the court , with us presid joe biden call khan & rsquo ; s pursuit of warrant against netanyahu and gallant & ldquo ; outrag . & rdquo ; the unit state ambassador to israel jack lew call it & ldquo ; shame & rdquo ; and us secretari of state antoni blinken call it & ldquo ; wronghead & rdquo ; and warn that it complic effort to reach a hostag deal . he said he wa happi to work with congress on an appropri respons . some u . s . lawmak call for the unit state to impos sanction on the court . in 2020 , the unit state impos sanction on an icc prosecutor . the kremlin said on tuesday it wa veri curiou that the unit state appear readi to use sanction against the icc . '' in gener , the situat is more than curiou in term of the u . s . attitud and willing to use sanction method even against the icc , '' kremlin spokesman dmitri peskov told report . in march last year , the icc issu warrant for the arrest of presid vladimir putin on war crime charg . russia say the warrant against putin is a meaningless attempt by the west to soil russia ' s reput and deni war crime in ukrain . ukrain say russia commit war crime . russia say the west ha ignor ukrain ' s crime , a charg deni by kyiv . biden said last year that the icc ' s decis to issu an arrest warrant for putin wa justifi . the unit state ha share detail of alleg russian war crime in ukrain with the icc . russia is not a parti to the rome statut , which establish the icc , so moscow doe not recogn the court ' s jurisdict . '' we are not parti to the relev statut , therefor , we do not recogn the jurisdict of the court , '' peskov said . reuter contribut to thi report .