rachel goldberg , whose 23 - year old son hersh polin goldberg wa taken hostag from the nova music festiv on octob 7 , invok cain and abel as well as the holocaust in a fieri speech at the israel ralli last tuesday in washington , dc , advoc for more activ on behalf of the hostag . goldberg , who emigr from virginia to israel with her famili when hersh wa eight , ha been one of the most vocal famili member of hostag to speak out on the intern stage on behalf of the hostag ' plight . a coupl of week after the massacr , she wa the focu of a 35 - minut podcast episod of the new york time ' `` the daili , '' in which she recount in detail the event of the day , what they knew about her son ' s condit , and stori of uniti and love among the famili member of the kidnap and dead & mdash ; who through their share circumst have becom a commun of their own . poster of hersh & mdash ; larger and more distinct than the typic `` kidnap `` sign featur differ hostag & mdash ; have been display in mani place throughout israel and the world . & nbsp ; '' right now , how we are live is hard to describ to you , '' goldberg told the crowd of nearli 300 , 000 at the nation mall in washington last tuesday . `` we hostag famili have live the last 39 day in slow motion torment . for 38 night none of us have slept the real sleep of ' the befor . ' we all have third - degre burn on our soul . our heart are bruis and seep with miseri . '' but the real soul suffer are those of the hostag , '' she continu . `` and they want to ask everyon in the world & mdash ; all the screamer , the indiffer , the expert , the academ , the knowledg , the passiv , the perfectli outrag , the righteou , the indign , the hater , the leader , the lover & mdash ; everi singl one of us : whi ? whi is the world accept that 240 human be from almost 30 countri have been stolen and buri aliv ? '' these children of god rang in age from nine month to 87 year . they are christian , muslim , jew , buddhist and hindu . whi are they be left underground in the dirt ? '' she ask . '' abigail mor idan is three year old ; she watch her parent get murder in front of her and wa then kidnap , and she would like me to ask the world , whi are you let her stay in the dark in her trauma , buri in the earth ' s crust ? '' she ask . `` and joshua mollel , who is a tanzanian african graduat student studi agribusi , would like for me to ask you whi somehow hi life actual doesn ' t matter . the world must prepar what we will say to them . '' compar the current situat to signific moment in histori , goldberg told of a christian german who hid jew dure the holocaust . when he wa ask whi he risk so much to do thi , he answer : `` at least i will know when i die and stand befor god , he will not ask me what he ask cain in the bibl : ' where were you when your brother ' s blood cri out from the ground ? ' '' what the world need to start think about today is , ' what will your excus be ? ' ''