all the window in the hamamdeh famili & rsquo ; s small stone home are broken . the shatter jag glass is one of the mani visibl scar of the violent event that took place in khirbet al - mufaqarah on septemb 28 , when the small , dusti south hebron hill palestinian herd villag of some 122 peopl wa transform into a battleground that left 12 palestinian and five settler injur . & ldquo ; all the home are like thi , & rdquo ; said mahmoud hamamdeh , ad that & ldquo ; thi wa a battl for our home .... we were attack with stone and stick . & rdquo ; hi three - year - old grandson muhammad baker mahmoud hamamdeh suffer a head wound in the attack seriou enough to requir a three - day hospit stay at soroka - univers medic center in beersheba . a week later , dress in gray pajama and sandal , the brown - hair boy sat on the concret floor in hi home play with larg , multicolor lego that two isra visitor had brought him . the room wa mostli bare . a number of small , thin , color foam mattress were laid on the floor for seat . muhammad had fit the red , green , yellow and blue piec togeth , as hi mother , bara & rsquo ; a , and hi grandfath mahmoud describ how their home wa pelt by stone thrown by jewish extremist who they presum were settler . & ldquo ; thi is the room where the children hid , & rdquo ; mahmoud explain , becaus it steel shutter could provid safeti . hi grandson muhammad , howev , never made it into the safe room , becaus he had alreadi been hit by rock that went through two differ window of the bedroom he had been nap in . the room wa fill with glass and blood , recal mahmoud , explain that they thought he had die . mahmoud walk over to the bedroom , where he held up the bloodstain sweatshirt muhammad had slept in , to underscor how frighten the moment had been . the attack , which occur about 2 p . m . on the simhat torah holiday , is the worst such incid of violenc in that west bank villag that anyon can rememb . the commun is not link up to an electr or water grid and is locat off a dirt road between the two settler outpost of avigail and maon farm . the three commun are all unauthor , and as a result the statu of all three commun is tenuou . both palestinian and isra hold that their right to the land supersed the idf regul that govern area c of the west bank where they are situat . area c is under idf militari and civilian rule . palestinian hold that thi land should be part of the perman border of a palestinian state , while the isra right believ that thi land , which is part of the biblic heartland , should be includ within israel & rsquo ; s sovereign border . palestinian flag flutter in al - mufaqarah , and isra flag can be seen in avigail and maon farm . the histor narr of these commun differ , as do their languag . similarli , there is a wide gap between their narr of how and whi the attack on the villag unfold . a south hebron hill region council spokesman claim a group of some 20 settler had walk in the morn from avigail to maon farm and were on their way back when they were attack by palestinian . there wa onli a small armi presenc in the area , and they took action to defend themselv , he said . the secur offic from maon farm came to their assist , and he wa attack , with rock thrown at hi vehicl , the spokesman said . he provid the jerusalem post with photo that depict palestinian hold rock , includ one that show a mask palestinian with a slingshot . anoth photo show palestinian besid a build with stone and a stick . channel 12 post a video from the event , which show armi soldier dure the event accus a palestinian & ndash ; basel adra , from the area , who volunt with the left - wing group b & rsquo ; tselem & ndash ; of set brush aflam . channel 12 then ad that thi wa done so that palestinian could accus jew of set their villag on fire . adra took to twitter to debunk the channel 12 charg , post a video that show that the fire in question wa start by a tear - ga canist . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s a lie . the fire wa caus by an armi ga bomb . i liter film it , so i have proof . also , there aren & rsquo ; t ani home there & ndash ; just a pile of wood , & rdquo ; adra tweet . he ad that & ldquo ; i saw the fire , film it , and call resid to fetch water . & rdquo ; initi , he wrote that two soldier help him , but then anoth soldier film him & ldquo ; to fabric a fals accus against me . & rdquo ; accord to b & rsquo ; tselem the incid start around 2 p . m . when settler attack a shepherd in nearbi khirbet a - rakeez while he wa graze hi flock . b & rsquo ; tselem alleg that the settler kill four of the shepherd & rsquo ; s goat . adra said the shepherd call for help , and then a stone incid broke out between the settler and the palestinian , with the armi arriv shorti after and shoot tear ga and stun grenad at the palestinian . he charg that , at it height , the event includ as mani as 80 settler , and that the violenc spread beyond al - mufaqarah and also includ attack on some home in hi villag of al - tuwani . violenc at thi level , he specul , could occur onli if it had been preplan in an attempt to scare palestinian into leav the area . & ldquo ; they don & rsquo ; t want us to live here , & rdquo ; he ad . the attack , he said , vandal home , vehicl and cut water line . b & rsquo ; tselem publish a video that show a stone attack by jewish extremist against a home in al - mufaqarah . in the video one can hear the sound of break glass and the explos of stun grenad and tear ga . one settler sourc blame the attack on outsid jewish extremist , primarili teen , ad that it wa clear the violenc there wa unaccept and went abov and beyond ani claim with respect to self - defens . he said that the armi and the polic have to be the one who take step to prevent the violenc . the armi declin to be interview for the articl and the polic did not respond as of press time to a request for detail about their investig into the incid . polic initi arrest six isra and one palestinian in connect with the septemb 28 event . in an unusu move oc central command maj .- gen . yehuda fox visit al - mufaqarah last week and spoke with mahmoud hamamdeh to learn firsthand about the incid . palestinian , includ mahmoud , said that from their perspect the incid could not have occur without the armi , which they said wa on the scene almost from the start . the villag of al - mufaqarah is close to the scene of a septemb 17 incid in which an idf major and hi unit prevent a group of left - wing activist from reach a small palestinian hamlet near the avigail outpost so as to deliv a truckload of water . the soldier were captur on film use what appear to be undu forc to dispel the activist , who had been march on both side of a narrow pave road that lead to the outpost and that also pass by khirbet al - mufaqarah . less than two week later , it wa thi same idf unit that wa unabl to prevent a group of extrem right - wing teenag from reach al - mufaqarah and pelt it home and resid with stone . the al - mufaqarah incid come amid a heighten focu on violenc by jewish extremist and settler against palestinian in the west bank , in a period when tension have increas overal in that region , includ in the south hebron hill . accord to the un , as of octob 4 , there have been 264 attack thi year by settler and jewish extremist against palestinian in the west bank and east jerusalem that result in properti damag and 101 in which there were injuri . thi is compar to data from all of 2020 in which there were 270 settler and jewish extremist attack that result in properti damag and 82 in which there were injuri . separ , un data show , 69 isra civilian have been injur by palestinian in the west bank and east jerusalem , compar with 16 last year . accord to south hebron hill region council head yochai damri , & ldquo ; there are 1 , 500 incid of rock - throw on jew on the road in the judea - samaria area everi year . & rdquo ; still , a wide - rang group attack such as the one that occur last week is rare . mahmoud hamamdeh said it is imposs to describ the chao of the attack ; the violenc wa overwhelm , and on all side one didn & rsquo ; t know what to do and where to be , he said . rubber bullet , stun grenad and tear - ga case are litter in the villag . he roll up hi sleev to show how he had two wound on hi arm , which he said were from the stun grenad and tear ga canist that were thrown . when the attack began , he and hi sibl had gather for a famili lunch , when they heard shout about approach settler . & ldquo ; i had 22 grandchildren who were present , & rdquo ; he said , and the whole time the attack last , their safeti wa uppermost in hi mind , to say noth of the wound muhammad . damri said he & ldquo ; immedi denounc , and alway vigor denounc , ani harm of innoc person , regardless of religion or origin . & rdquo ; thi goe , he said , for needless act of violenc on either side . repres from avigail and havat maon went to visit the boy , damri said , ad that & ldquo ; i , too , as the local elect leader of our jewish commun , ask the child & rsquo ; s famili if i could visit . the famili polit refus & ndash ; concern that the palestinian author would retali against them . & rdquo ; avigail resid reut malichi said she had gone to see the three - year - old muhammad thi week , have alreadi visit him at soroka last week as well . a school counselor and a mother of seven who grew up in the gush etzion region , she is among those from avigail who have a relationship with palestinian from al - mufaqarah , particularli with mahmoud hamamdeh becaus of hi hebrew . the commun of avigail is a small , mix religi and secular commun , situat in a complex polit realiti , she said . isra and palestinian in thi area live togeth , side by side , and have to be good neighbor , even though they hold diametr oppos belief , includ on their relationship to the land , malichi said . the palestinian do not recogn the state of israel and do not want the jew live on land that they hold belong to them , she ad . in turn , she said , & ldquo ; we are zionist and we are return to ... the land of the bibl . & rdquo ; initi , malichi said , she wa unawar of the attack , as she celebr the holiday with her famili , with a barbecu lunch after servic , which includ her mother and some of her sibl . malichi learn about the violenc , she said , mostli after the fact . she blame the incid on a group of teenag that visit the commun for the holiday , explain that it did not repres the peopl of avigail itself . the teenag were not properli supervis , she explain . alreadi when she met them over the holiday , she fear for a situat that could get out of control . malichi wa also abl to speak with the teenag after the incid , so she said she understand that & ldquo ; they did terribl thing . & rdquo ; malichi ad , & ldquo ; i am embarrass to tell you what they told me , and it can not be justifi . & rdquo ; she ha alreadi warn her own teenag son that if he ever engag in such activ , she will person turn him in to the polic . & ldquo ; i can understand whi palestinian threw stone & rdquo ; in respons , & rdquo ; she said . thi is not how jew or the resid of judea and samaria should behav , she said . isra live here should be a forc for peac . & ldquo ; noth like that ha happen here befor , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; thi land can no longer toler the blood , the hate , and we have to help it love us . it is not the path of thi nation to live in hate . & rdquo ; & bull ;