a month after oper guardian of the wall , the idf continu to struggl to maintain calm in the west bank . with israel & rsquo ; s attent focus on the gaza strip , the flame of violenc in the west bank are at risk of explod . & nbsp ; accord to data releas by the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) , there were 592 attack in the west bank and anoth 178 in jerusalem in the month of may , compar to a total of 104 in april ( 80 in the west bank and 24 in jerusalem ) . the may attack includ 401 firebomb , 33 pipe bomb , 87 arson attack , 47 small - arm fire , two grenad attack , one vehicular attack and other . & nbsp ; one isra civilian , yehuda guetta , wa also kill in a shoot attack at the tapuah junction in earli may by 44 - year - old muntasir shalabi . & nbsp ; most of the attack that took place were not carri out by group but by lone wolv . those kind of attack , the idf ha admit , are much more challeng to thwart than attack plan by group . if you don & rsquo ; t have an organ , you don & rsquo ; t have the signatur of the prepar of the specif attack . & nbsp ; despit the challeng , the great major of attack have been thwart by secur forc . but the high number of thwart attack also indic that the flame of violenc are grow in the west bank . & nbsp ; while there have been significantli fewer vehicular attack as well as stab and shoot attack against idf soldier , they remain a major threat , especi toward driver on the road share by both palestinian and isra . & nbsp ; accord to the idf , shoot or vehicular ram attack are more like to be carri out by young men , and children are behind mani case of stone throw . & nbsp ; along with the high number of attack against isra target , a report by ynet news found that 34 palestinian were kill over the past month , & ldquo ; more than dure ani month in the past 10 year . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; compar the past month to the height of the wave of knife and vehicular - ram attack that took place in 2015 - 2016 , an averag of 26 palestinian were kill everi month . & nbsp ; so what & rsquo ; s happen ? & nbsp ; with the cancel of the may palestinian elect in late april , the public ha lost all faith in their leader who they say have abandon the caus a long time ago . palestinian author presid mahmoud abba , they say , ha remain silent about the beat of protest and worship by israel . & nbsp ; the reestablish of the illeg settlement of evyatar ha led to repeat violent clash between isra secur forc and local palestinian . four palestinian teenag have been kill in recent week . & nbsp ; like on the gaza border , palestinian youth have been take part in night disturb with loud riot and set fire to tire . in one video upload to youtub , demonstr chant & ldquo ; greet from the steadfast villag of beita to the steadfast citi in gaza . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; evyatar wa reestablish by settler in april on land that histor belong to the palestinian villag of beita , kabalan and yatma . resid have been bar from the land for decad by the isra militari for secur reason . & nbsp ; the idf ha made it clear that the outpost will be demolish , with the idf & rsquo ; s central command write that & ldquo ; the evyatar outpost wa establish illeg , and everyth wa done in complet violat of the law . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; but , even when it will be demolish , local aren & rsquo ; t hold their breath . they know that anoth illeg settlement will like be built on anoth hill . & nbsp ; and while the fight between israel and the terrorist group in the gaza strip end , the initi reason behind hama & rsquo ; s rocket fire remain : clash on the templ mount . last week nine palestinian were wound by spong - tip bullet and stun grenad use by isra polic when they clash at the holi site . & nbsp ; while rocket are not rain down on israel , incendiari balloon have caus dozen of fire to rage across southern israel . & nbsp ; hama ha repeatedli warn that it would onc again fire rocket into israel and restart hostil over develop in jerusalem . terrorist group on tuesday warn that if israel doe not allow humanitarian relief into the blockad enclav , they will onc again resort to violenc . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we warn the isra enemi and it alli of delay the lift of the sieg . the enemi will not succeed with it extort polici , and we will not sit back as our peopl are push over , & rdquo ; the group said in a statement quot by isra media . & nbsp ; hama leader yayha sinwar , who met with tor wennesland , the un special coordin for the middl east peac process , said monday that the talk fail , and accus israel of extort , urg palestinian to resist . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; it wa a bad meet , & rdquo ; sinwar said . it wa not posit at all , and we clarifi to the [ unit nation ] deleg that we would hold a meet of islam and nation faction in gaza to decid our next step . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; so while the world watch as southern israel burn from balloon launch from gaza , the flame are grow just as deadli in the west bank . israel need to get both fire under control befor it & rsquo ; s too late .