a man in hi 70 ran over protest block a road , wound three of them mildli to moder , in the latest violent incid come amid increas vitriol from public figur against the gaza hostag protest . dror salay , who arriv at the protest and wa present dure the incid , said in a convers on 103fm : `` it look like a hit - and - run , it seem like he intent hit her . '' '' i wa part of a protest march for the hostag , and ... i saw a jeep with a driver confront the protest . what i saw wa that the protest gave him space so he could drive . and then , to my astonish , instead of drive slowli , he acceler to top speed while veer the car to hit an elderli woman stand in front of him . '' דריסת המפגינים בתל אביב : מתיעוד נוסף ניתן לראות את הנהג מאיץ , דורס מפגינים , לאחר מכן מנסה לברוח , דורס מפגינים נוספים ובורח מהזירה . pic . twitter . com / 5nk5r4ibhf & mdash ; yollan cohen יולן כהן ( @ yollancohen ) april 6 , 2024he ad : `` it seem like he aim at her ... he hit an elderli woman who wa thrown onto the engin hood and then fell on the street . she wa hurt , wound her head and break her teeth . he also hit other protest and fled the scene . the polic arrest him , and he continu to curs and even tri to spit on the protest . '' fuel by conspiraci theori and incit from the rightdur the convers , salay referenc the incit heard recent from public figur on the right . `` after the incit devoid of respons that we are see , includ from minist in the govern against the protest , use strang conspiraci theori and harsh express , thi is the result . these peopl are incit , '' he said . '' thi person seem to watch channel 14 often ; i saw a complet incit person . full of anger and hatr , show extremist view , they are convinc of thing that do not make sens . fanat and crazi will alway exist , but it look differ when these fanat are in the govern . thi is an attempt murder , noth els . '' the attorney of the suspect in the alleg hit - and - run , roy keren , said : `` the case is sad and tragic ... thi wa not an intent hit - and - run ; appar , a mechan malfunct in the electr vehicl caus it to acceler without the driver ' s abil to stop the vehicl immedi while do everyth possibl to avoid hit the protest . ''