the outcom of the jenin oper is unknown becaus no one know how far the idf is go to go , or how and when west bank palestinian and israel & rsquo ; s enemi , as well as it alli , will react . some earli data point gather so far have compar it to oper defens shield in 2002 , howev , and also to oper break the wave , which start last march and hasn & rsquo ; t stop sinc . so far , the current oper is a far cri from defens shield , when the idf occupi larg swath of the west bank for extend period of time , with no particular end in mind , and explicitli kept open the possibl of a longer - term stay & ndash ; if it were need to reduc terror . idf ' s month - long oper in the west bankal in all , the idf left after about a month , although it did maintain cordon around specif villag and continu to go in and out of them in a volum and frequenc far abov anyth it ha done over the past year . that time wa character by signific fight that occur simultan throughout the west bank , with the idf encircl and place under sieg then - palestinian author presid yasser arafat . more than 100 isra were kill , includ dozen in one bomb alon , befor the oper kick into gear . dozen of soldier were kill dure the oper , with more than 20 , 000 reservist call up . about 200 to 400 palestinian were kill dure the oper , with an addit 200 kill the month befor . the number of wound on both side wa high . so far , noth on the isra or palestinian side current come close to these number . yet thi oper is qualit differ from the routin raid and arrest that the idf , shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) , and border polic have been conduct under oper break the wave for more than a year . although a dozen airstrik did take place , airpow had not been use by the idf in the west bank & ndash ; unlik gaza & ndash ; sinc 2006 . as well , a full brigad of soldier ha been mobil & ndash ; as oppos to a small number of platoon or battalion . in term of number , thi is as mani as thousand of soldier in one case and a coupl hundr in the other . idf ' s oper signal a strateg shift with temporari gainsanoth point of differ is that prime minist benjamin netanyahu and idf chief of staff lt .- gen . herzi halevi have been person follow and manag the oper , minut to minut , instead of the middl manag of lieuten - colonel . the oper would not go on indefinit , idf spokesman brig .- gen . daniel hagari said monday , ad that sever day wa an option . for context , most oper over the last year last under an hour , or a few hour at most . thi oper could extend for week or more if need , hagari said . in addit , idf home front command is now on high alert , both in the north and the south , concern that the oper could instig rocket fire . with all thi , it is not even close to what ha been happen over the last year , and it is a clear attempt to alter the strateg pictur , use a grand show of forc . yet in term of the ultim result , it will like yield onli veri temporari tactic achiev for israel & ndash ; someth akin to mow the lawn , which then need to be mow again soon after . thi is the situat becaus neither side is realli readi for anoth defens shield , with it high price in life . they also are not readi for a new diplomat open that could provid hope for the palestinian side and dous the popular of the terrorist group . idf ' s oper face tactic limit and gener resist & nbsp ; as of press time , there were no isra death as a result of the oper . thi is not onli due to talent and luck , but becaus the idf is act veri slowli and veri strateg in it gun battl . that can not last if the idf goe head - to - head with all the terrorist group over an extend period of time . the idf can confisc hundr of bomb and gun , but new one can be made and bought within month . one group of terrorist can be kill or arrest , but anoth can easili replac them . top idf offici have repeatedli told the jerusalem post that one of the main reason the idf fail to clamp down on the terrorist wave thi past year is that today & rsquo ; s palestinian teenag and adolesc do not even rememb defens shield . they were born into a post - realiti of it , and so they are not deter from fight the idf . they have not met the might of an extend idf oper . thi one , without much more forc or diplomaci , will not chang that veri fundament fact .