in februari 2005 , dure the govern of then - prime minist ariel sharon , then - defens minist shaul mofaz and idf chief mosh ya & rsquo ; alon order a moratorium of punit hous demolit against the famili of palestinian terrorist . a commiss of top defens expert led by maj .- gen . ( re . ) udi shani had empir studi whether hous demolit over the last few year of the second intifada had increas deterr against terrorist , conclud that the opposit wa true . yet in 2023 , it seem that nearli the entir defens establish is convinc that hous demolit do deter futur potenti terror attack . they are so sure that they even want to seal off the hous of the famili of the 13 - year - old palestinian who shot but did not kill , two isra victim & ndash ; which would be the first time that such a measur would be taken against an attempt murder versu an actual murder . what , if anyth , chang between 2005 and 2023 about israel , the palestinian , hous demolit and deterr ? the 2005 committe found that hous demolit , rather than deter futur terror , gener inflam hatr and increas motiv for futur attack by palestinian against israel . accord to the defens commiss , there had onli been 20 case in which the threat of demolit deter potenti attack or push their famili to turn them in & ndash ; out of hundr of demolit sinc 2001 . fundament , the commiss report simpli point out that after hundr of demolit , the second intifada had not been put down . furthermor , the report said that in mani case hous demolit hit famili which , other than the one terrorist attack , were not part of a greater terror group and were view by the greater palestinian public as illegitim collect punish . thi meant that sometim new terrorist were even be creat from famili or neighbor of these famili who might not have becom a problem . anoth part of the problem , the committe said , wa that differ palestinian group , whether the palestinian author , hama or otherwis , frequent compens famili of terrorist and help them rebuild new home , weaken possibl deterr . in addit , if there had been some short period earlier in the second intifada when a small number of demolit might have had a deterr effect , as the polici went on longer , the deterr effect wa lost . with some veri limit except , israel stop demolish palestinian hous for punit deterr purpos from 2005 - 2014 & ndash ; almost a decad . it wa after palestinian terrorist murder three jewish teenag that the then - govern of benjamin netanyahu ( who went almost five year without demolit ) reinstat the demolit polici . the issu wa probe again by the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) dure the 2015 - 2016 knife intifada , but thi time the overwhelm major of offici found that the demolit were have a deterr effect . signific number of palestinian who start toward an attack , but relent , or parent who turn in their kid befor they could commit an attack in process , said that save the famili hous had impact them greatli . some offici did a victori lap on the issu in 2016 as one of the reason & ndash ; along with new technolog and analysi of social media & ndash ; that the knife intifada wa put down befor it blew up into a & ldquo ; full intifada . & rdquo ; the jerusalem post recent receiv addit confirm from defens offici deal with some of the greatest palestinian violenc in the northern west bank which conclud that demolit are still provid deterr . they repeat the same updat 2022 testimoni of palestinian ( not just reli on the 2015 - 2016 data ) who pull back from terror at the last minut or turn in their kid to stop them from terror . one fascin point wa that some of these offici did not even know that israel & rsquo ; s moratorium on hous demolit had gone on for so long , nearli a decad . in fact , they were quit shock by the notion . part of what is interest about that is that the year 2005 - 2014 & ndash ; without hous demolit & ndash ; were a much less violent time period than 2015 - 2023 ha been with hous demolit . of cours , one counterrespons to thi argument is that thi wa becaus the idf hit palestinian terror much harder and deeper dure the second intifada , and it wa thi that provid quiet . some also say that if the idf did hous demolit faster , not with week or month of delay , then there would be greater deterr . mayb , but there is no guarante there either , and there have been case where a terrorist & rsquo ; s famili had noth to do with their activ and rush forward without figur that out would have broken even isra law as it current exist ( keep in mind that though intern law ha a place for hous demolit , israel is an outlier among democraci in actual perform them ) . some other question worth askingbut it is worth ask ; when isra defens offici in 2023 say they are sure that demolit provid deterr , are they fulli and serious consid the oppos view ? if some of them do not even recal a world without hous demolit , can they be said to fulli consid that view ? and if israel ha been do them more aggress than ever sinc march 2022 without end the current wave of violenc , what doe that say ? there are no easi answer to these question . but they are question that could be crucial to ask by secur profession who serious consid both side and who ignor partisan nois for and against the demolit on either polit side of the spectrum .