ye , the compani that gave us fauda and shtisel , among mani other hit isra seri , announc it slate of 25 upcom project on wednesday , one of which will be an antholog seri dramat the event of the hama attack on octob 7 & ndash ; which it ceo ilan siegel said wa & ldquo ; especi import right now . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; the huge sum we invest thi year in produc origin content dure the war express our deep commit to isra creativ and advocaci effort in the world , & rdquo ; he said . the compani ha invest more than ni 100 million into isra televis seri . the gala announc event & ndash ; which these day in israel mean a trendi venu in jaffa and day drink & ndash ; featur perform by star musician noa kirel and noa erez and appear by mani of israel & rsquo ; s brightest star who turn up to promot their upcom work , includ nelli tagar , luci ayoub , naomi levov , mori cohen , guri alfi , yuval semo , and mani other , as well as top produc such as recent israel prize recipi mosh ederi . a show that will tell the stori of octob 7 survivorsbut the war wa not forgotten amid the glamour , as the new oct . 7 seri wa describ in detail . each of it four episod will spotlight a differ stori . levov will portray cyclist aya midan , a resid of kibbutz be & rsquo ; eri whose life wa save by courag bedouin from rahat , who rescu dozen of other . levov said she felt a & ldquo ; sens of mission & rdquo ; about particip in the film and tell thi stori . she met with midan , as well as other who were there , and watch video footag of real event to prepar for the role . & nbsp ; sever other stori will be includ in the seri . one concern sever hatzalah volunt who head to the south as quickli as they could and save live with their ambul . thi episod will featur yuval semo of eretz nehederet in the veri seriou role of avi gian . in other episod , yael abecassi will portray sabin tassa , whose husband gil wa kill jump on a grenad to save their children ; and best friend gali amar and amit amar , who surviv the supernova festiv massacr by hide out , will be portray by swell ariel or ( the beauti queen of jerusalem ) and noa keidar . among the seri produc are chaya amor , an american , who felt that after the news broke of the massacr , she and her produc partner daniel finkelman ( menash ) & ldquo ; need to shift all our energi to thi project ... daniel is origin isra - born and i am veri jewish , and we know that in hollywood , in our industri , a lot of peopl aren & rsquo ; t veri comfort speak about thi subject , but we decid to devot ourselv to it . & rdquo ; she note , & ldquo ; you know how you alway think that someon els is go to do someth ? ... and then you realiz that no , everyon is wait on someon els . & rdquo ; so they quickli decid to creat the project togeth with ye . other produc includ lee ben shlush and aviv ben shlush . the seri , the english name for which is yet to be announc , will be premier on ye in a few month . other seri and movi that were announc at the press confer includ & nbsp ; & bull ; embassi down , a suspens drama about the sieg of the isra embassi in cairo in 2011 star yael elkana and maor schweitzer & bull ; noga , an intim documentari about isra indi - pop sensat noga erez & bull ; dagan : the last war , an in - depth look at the life of the former head of the mossad , meir dagan , featur a deathb interview & nbsp ; & bull ; my darl sister & ndash ; the new season of the belov seri direct by guri alfi , in which the trio play by nelli tagar , danna semo , and tess hashiloni visit india & nbsp ; & bull ; zahavi , a look at isra soccer star eran zahavi & bull ; wonder , a suspens drama that take place in an impend dystopian technolog futur , star noa kirel and mori cohen , and produc by paramount & rsquo ; s ananey studio & bull ; kugel , a prequel to shtisel , which featur sasson gabay and milli avit and is set in belgium , and & nbsp ; & bull ; night therapi , a seri about a traumat psychologist , featur yousef & ldquo ; joe & rdquo ; sweid , luci ayoub , and shira haa . the event also featur a speech by yossi elia , a givati command whose brigad wa adopt thi year by the compani ye and pelephon . he spoke movingli about the braveri of the soldier who have been fight for the past eight month and the need to support the wound and perpetu the memori of our fallen hero .