two rocket were fire at israel from the gaza strip , one week apart from each other . while the idf shrug off the first , blame it on bad weather , it & rsquo ; s now clear . it wa not a mistak . it wa a messag . hama is under pressur , and it & rsquo ; s get wors . the coronaviru pandem is wreak havoc in the blockad enclav , and hama & ndash ; which is in no mood for conflict with israel & ndash ; tend to send messag in the form of incendiari balloon or rocket when it is under pressur and need aid . though the group wa abl to effect deal with the deadli viru dure the first wave , the blockad coastal enclav is suffer from a harsh second wave of the coronaviru , with more than 5 , 517 total case and 65 death , the major sinc septemb . the strip & rsquo ; s weak healthcar infrastructur , with fewer than 3 , 000 bed , is unabl to cope with all the sick , and is also see a record number of daili new case & ndash ; on saturday alon the health ministri said there were 891 new case . fathi abu warda , advis to the palestinian health minist in gaza , wa quot by wafa news agenc as say on sunday that there wa an & ldquo ; unpreced hike & rdquo ; in the number of case and that the european hospit in khan yuni in the south of the gaza strip ha reach it limit in receiv coronaviru case . thank to the intern aid israel ha let into the strip , hama ha been abl to increas it test capabl from 200 a day dure the first wave to 3 , 500 a day , and the number of ventil ha risen to 160 . abu warda also said two truckload of & ldquo ; urgent medic aid , & rdquo ; includ respir and medic for those with chronic ill , will enter the strip in the come day . but it & rsquo ; s still not enough . in addit to the coronaviru crisi , the economi is still a disast & ndash ; with the unemploy rate in gaza close to 50 % , with those who are employ earn close to noth . the averag monthli incom ha fallen from $ 244 to $ 29 sinc march . israel & rsquo ; s defens establish and southern command have warn sever time that there is a direct link between a worsen economi and rocket fire or incendiari balloon . hama is also becom further isol , includ from the palestinian author , which recent resum secur cooper with israel follow the victori of us presid - elect joe biden . follow the resumpt of secur tie , palestinian secur forc in the west bank are expect to renew their arrest of hama oper in the territori . the normal of tie between israel and gulf state ha also place a strain on hama . and that , the idf fear , will lead to closer tie with israel & rsquo ; s enemi on it northern border & ndash ; hezbollah . alreadi follow the deal with the unit arab emir , ismail haniyeh , who head hama & rsquo ; s polit bureau , met with hezbollah leader hassan nasrallah in beirut . there have been more than a dozen round of violent clash between the idf and terror group sinc 2018 , with thousand of rocket fire toward israel and thousand of hama and palestinian islam jihad target struck by the israel air forc in retali . but all of them end without ani tangibl solut , lead the idf to chang it concept toward a new approach , call & ldquo ; southern wind , & rdquo ; which would use higher - qualiti intellig and firepow to shorten the length of an oper . a new concept is all fine and dandi , but when push come to shove and a larg - scale militari oper take place , neither side will end up as a winner . you just have to look at the recent histori of the militari oper in the gaza strip where noth chang , except that both side experienc more death and destruct . so whi did the idf echo hama & rsquo ; s lightn excus when two rocket were fire toward central israel ? neither side want a larg - scale militari oper , and the idf believ that yahya sinwar , hama & rsquo ; s leader in the strip , as well as the head of it militari wing , moham deif , still prefer to follow the statu quo and avoid confront with the idf . the rocket fire by hama are a messag sent by sinwar , a messag that ha been receiv and understood by israel befor . the pressur is rise and someth need to be done befor the situat explod . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ;