a month befor the gaza war , thing were go well for israel . the abraham accord were go strong and a vaccin campaign had made israel an envi dure the pandem . the peac agreement appear to herald a new era in the middl east and all that wa requir wa to keep iran and it proxi from tri to destabil the region . a new us administr wa keen to increas the us role around the world and support human right . that might mean no more chaotic polici , like the flip - flop of the syria withdraw in 2018 - 2019 . & nbsp ; on may 22 , after the recent gaza war , the palestinian author mufti wa expel from al - aqsa for not support hama . hama wa ride a wave of popular support , claim it had defeat israel . protest in mani countri had target jew and articl slam israel were be print in newspap worldwid . china had led effort at the un critiqu israel and in the us , sever far - left member of the democrat parti were call israel & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; and push to stop arm sale . israel support wa declin among key support , such as american evangel . hama wa more popular than ever suddenli and it wasn & rsquo ; t even be condemn for fire 4 , 000 rocket at isra civilian , of which some 60 fell in isra citi and town . there & rsquo ; s talk now of a shift in how countri will approach hama and it ha receiv more legitimaci in the week sinc the war than in the decad prior . hezbollah and iran were empow and not deter . pakistan & rsquo ; s top diplomat wa spout antisemit on cnn , and turkey , along with iran , wa lead the charg to sanction and isol israel . in the west bank , palestinian were celebr the hama victori . group like human right watch and other anti - israel group were talk israel & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; and argu for a one - state solut . anti - israel activist sens the tide had turn : israel could be elimin as a & ldquo ; settler - coloni state . & rdquo ; iran agre . & nbsp ; how did it come to thi ? israel had larg kept hama isol and ossifi in gaza sinc the 2014 war . cut off from mani suppli by egypt , it had few friend . it had tri to expand that dwindl support abroad in 2019 and 2020 through visit to turkey , malaysia , qatar and iran . howev , israel & rsquo ; s new relationship in the gulf appear to show that israel wa now accept in the region and a new allianc with greec and cypru could promis new energi deal . turkey , concern about the incom presid of joe biden , wa talk reconcili across the region after be empow by the trump administr . the us wa & ldquo ; back , & rdquo ; biden said . & nbsp ; when the biden administr came into offic it wa after an unpreced era of uncertainti in the us , with covid and the former us presid refus to conced . the middl east wa not a prioriti . israel had close cooper with us central command and good relat with the us regard it desir to protect it interest . it wa abl to act against iranian entrench in syria . there wa no big push for peac . there wasn & rsquo ; t even a new us ambassador in jerusalem . but a slow drumbeat wa begin . in prepar for the incom biden administr , the human right group b & rsquo ; tselem releas a report on israel apartheid . by april 27 , human right watch would follow suit . on april 29 , the palestinian author postpon it elect , fear a hama victori . israel had held elect on march 31 and continu to be divid . it wa the fourth elect in two year . prime minist benjamin netanyahu did littl to form a coalit . a ray of hope wa the rise of ra & rsquo ; am and it head mansour abba . he look will to join an opposit coalit after break from the joint list . by may 5 , presid reuven rivlin had task yair lapid with form a govern after netanyahu fail onc again to creat a coalit . meanwhil , tension were grow in jerusalem . ramadan had begun and with , it there were clash with isra polic at damascu gate . after attack on orthodox jew there wa a right - wing ralli on april 22 and sever were wound . a disput in east jerusalem @ @ @ s sheikh jarrah neighborhood began to get some intern and palestinian attent . hama vow to defend al - aqsa . on qud ( jerusalem ) day , may 7 , iranian suprem leader ayatollah khamenei said israel wa a terrorist state . iran & rsquo ; s irgc head hossein salami also slam the jewish state and predict that it could suffer a tactic defeat or be blockad at sea . hama and hezbollah made similar statement . hama warn israel that it would respond to jerusalem clash and on may 10 , to coincid with israel & rsquo ; s jerusalem day march , fire rocket at jerusalem . israel , with lapid and naftali bennett seek to form a coalit to replac netanyahu , began airstrik on gaza . by may 12 , bennett had end discuss on a new govern . riot across israel in arab and mix town creat a crisi . border polic were rush to lod . attack and lynch began on both side from bat yam to umm al - fahm , rahat , jaffa and other place . there had been clash in jaffa sinc april 20 . now thing took a turn for the wors . israel call up almost 10 , 000 reservist , and sent golani and 7th armor soldier to the border of gaza . it rush support to the west bank where shoot attack and clash grew . the attack had begun with palestinian terror cell target the tapuah junction in earli may . anoth shoot attack took place on may 7 , near a post at salem in the west bank . israel said the shooter were plan a wors attack . & nbsp ; when israel retali on may 10 , hama put into action a plan to use thousand of rocket to pound ashkelon , ashdod and tel aviv , as well as isra airport and popul center . it use drone and plan to use unman submarin . it sent anti - tank guid missil ( atgm ) team to the border to strike at isra vehicl . thi wa a sophist , plan oper , in which up to 140 hama rocket would be fire at onc in massiv barrag . hama had perfect thi over the year with variou rocket attack at sea , practic for thi scenario . it also show off new long - rang rocket with a rang of up to 250 km . , target eilat and perhap dimona as well . it knew that a syrian s - 200 had been fire that trigger alert near dimona on april 22 . & nbsp ; with iranian support , there were attack in the north as well . on may 13 , rocket were fire into the sea from lebanon and protest laid sieg to israel @ @ @ s border with it northern neighbor on may 18 . it may have come from iraq . rocket fire on may 19 even flew near kiryat yam , near haifa . thi wa a seriou incid . it follow the april 27 down of a hezbollah drone . & nbsp ; now hama and fatah activist are battl over al - aqsa , as clash show on may 23 , and hama is say that it war ha harm the abraham accord . & nbsp ; it & rsquo ; s not clear whether hama knew it plan would work or the degre to which iran advis hama on thi strategi . it is also not clear if the benefit to hama and iran wa mere a lucki turn of event for them and that time dictat the need to go to war but the result were far from certain . clearli , hama didn & rsquo ; t have much to lose . israel , on the other hand , ha much to lose and it had diminish return from it year of sunk cost in gaza . iran and hezbollah want to test israel & rsquo ; s defens . it increasingli appear israel walk into a trap in gaza . it wa a trap partial of israel & rsquo ; s own make due to not have a new govern and have strateg plan concentr in netanyahu & rsquo ; s offic without check and balanc and broader secur cabinet discuss . & nbsp ;