the current campaign between israel and hama is the fiercest one sinc the 2014 war . it should end becaus of sever reason . & nbsp ; israel & rsquo ; s iron dome is success in intercept rocket , but as the campaign continu , the chanc that one or sever rocket will caus heavi isra casualti rapidli increas . a signific blow , harm dozen of isra , might push israel to launch a larg - scale ground offens , deep insid the gaza strip . such an attack might seek to defeat hama onc and for all , but toppl it rule would like forc israel into the posit of conquer the strip altogeth , an outcom israel doe not ultim desir . & nbsp ; the gaza strip is a small area ( 365 squar kilomet ) , and it ha been highli monitor by israel , make it easier for the idf to gather vital inform about hama and other group there . the idf also ha been train to confront hama . nevertheless , in retak the gaza strip , hundr of isra troop will be kill or injur , fight their foe abov and underground . & nbsp ; hama dug long tunnel in the gaza strip , prepar itself for war , includ as part of an idf territori seizur . the fight would therefor not be over after the idf captur the entir gaza strip . the idf would have to destroy the exist militari infrastructur . palestinian combat , not onli from hama , would aspir to harm isra , includ take them as prison . isra in the gaza strip would inevit be target for ambush , i , etc . & nbsp ; as in prior similar campaign , israel ha reli on firepow , mostli through aircraft , to make signific achiev . howev , these accomplish fall short of the chanc for complet victori . sinc israel will not retak the gaza strip , hama will keep it base , recov and produc addit and more sophist rocket and missil with longer rang , accuraci etc . follow isra strike , hama might need month , and in certain area , year to rebuild it strength . hama , includ it naval commando , were hit hard . overal , israel manag to inflict hama quit a blow in thi round . & nbsp ; israel theoriz that more strike in the current round will be adequ to crippl the militari wing of hama , delay anoth round , but there is no guarante of that . hama will still have a capabl to challeng israel . & nbsp ; thi round start follow clash in jerusalem , which are capabl of occur again at ani time for a varieti of reason . israel need to be care in thi matter , but predict in advanc what will ignit riot , let alon anoth round with hama , is a specul undertak . the latter can easili reli on friction between jew and arab in jerusalem as an excus for strike israel , produc yet anoth extend campaign . & nbsp ; hama is an iranian proxi , although independ in mani respect . it self - determin ha been demonstr in sever instanc , such as when it refus to fight for assad , iran & rsquo ; s alli , dure the syrian civil war . nevertheless , iran recogn the import of hama due to it locat , near israel , and sinc it is sunni . the mostli shi & rsquo ; ite iran use thi religi factor to present itself as one that assist sunni , and not onli shi & rsquo ; ite group such as hezbollah . & nbsp ; in recent year , iranian train and knowledg help hama upgrad it missil and rocket , with the result be shown in thi latest round . iran herebi hit israel indirectli , as part of the ongo conflict between them . israel return the favor by bomb iranian target insid syria , and by conduct covert oper against iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program . & nbsp ; israel & rsquo ; s most crucial nation secur concern is stop or at least delay the develop of iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program . it is a top prioriti for israel , more import than ani issu israel ha with hama or ani other nation secur concern for that matter . & nbsp ; talk between iran , the unit state , and other power about contain iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program are ongo . israel doe not have much leverag in those negoti , but as long as israel is occupi with hama , israel can not focu on what matter most : handl iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program . in that sens , hama serv iran even if hama fight israel for it own reason . thi is anoth major reason whi israel should end the current campaign with hama . & nbsp ; israel and the unit state have close tie , but the biden administr doe not have veri friendli relat with the isra govern . israel need it american patron in order to reach the best outcom for the current round with hama . israel reli much more on the unit state to make sure the talk with iran will be effect at restrain iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program . & nbsp ; if israel annoy the biden administr with respect to the gaza strip , the unit state might be less will to listen to israel about iran . the biden administr lend israel time in fight hama but it is clear the biden administr want thi campaign to subsid . if israel insist on persist with thi round , it risk increas friction with the biden administr . the gaza strip ha been under the rule of hama sinc 2007 . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; hama , due to it mismanag and eager to confront israel , caus a deep econom and social crisi in the gaza strip . some predict that thi area might collaps , drive thousand of desper palestinian to infiltr israel and ask for help . obvious , israel doe not prefer thi outcom . if israel continu with thi round , the probabl of further declin in the gaza strip increas . & nbsp ; mani arab state oppos hama , and some , like those in the gulf , have tie with israel . arab state can & rsquo ; t openli support israel in thi round , fear public opinion insid their countri and across the arab world . arab critic of israel is not as pronounc as it use to be , but thi can easili chang for the wors . the longer thi round is continu , the higher the burden of casualti amongst the palestinian popul will reach , forc even arab state that have normal relat with israel , to speak and mayb even to act against israel . & nbsp ; all in all , end the current campaign will frustrat mani in israel who wish to defeat hama . howev , israel should cut it loss , and not extend thi campaign , becaus it is simpli not worth the cost and the risk . & nbsp ; dr . ehud eilam ha been deal with and studi israel & rsquo ; s nation secur for more than 25 year . he serv in the isra militari and later work for the defens ministri as a research . he ha had six book publish in the us and uk , the latest be contain in the middl east ( univers press of nebraska , 2019 ) . & nbsp ;