the imag come from israel of a massiv fire south of ashkelon , a bu blown up , fire near a ga station and also intercept near the airport are a messag to the region . & nbsp ; they appear to show an israel that is more vulner than at ani time in recent memori . one might have to reach back to 2009 or 2006 for thi sens , but even then it wa region . thi ha seriou ramif becaus iran and hezbollah may think that israel is weaker than it is . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; imag are import . the imag of isra polic in al - aqsa mosqu help to creat an excus for violenc . there have been clash in haifa , lod , raml , acr , nazareth and other citi in israel . there have been clash in the south in bedouin commun and attack on a synagogu . peopl have been injur and sever shot . thi is a remind of the era of the riot that set off the second intifada , which also swept israel . it is a remind of vulner . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; for the media that are pro - iran , the narr is clear . al - mayadeen celebr that israel wa & ldquo ; astonish & rdquo ; by the huge volum of rocket fire . pro - iran comment say israel ha a fail leadership . tehran & rsquo ; s leadership is say israel understand onli forc and that & ldquo ; resist is the sole way & rdquo ; to confront the jewish state . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; imag show celebr in jerusalem and in umm el - fahm by arab demonstr are also be broadcast in the region . & nbsp ; thi ha implic that are broader than whether hama ha achiev much with fire more than 700 rocket . it may be that the actual damag is not so larg in comparison to what it could have been . howev , the overal stori is about imag and narr . & nbsp ; the narr in israel is to cast doubt on the leadership , question whether the prime minist ha empow hama and whether iron dome is abl to stop enough rocket . these question lead to what might happen in a conflict with hezbollah . & nbsp ; the hesit of the govern to strike back at gaza also enabl the focu to remain on the destruct wrought between tel aviv and ashkelon .