after a long period in which the isra eurovis song `` hurrican `` wa in ninth place in the bet chart for win eurovis , the song rose to eighth place on sunday . there is a possibl that thi increas on the bet tabl wa due to the outpour of sympathi israel receiv after it wa attack by iranian missil and drone late on saturday even . & nbsp ; an instagram page that publish content relat to eurovis publish the 10 most stream song from the offici eurovis youtub . in first place , by a larg margin , is the dutch song with 18 million stream , the swedish song with 4 . 5 million stream , and eden golan ' s `` hurrican `` with 4 . 1 million stream . & nbsp ; last week , the european broadcast union ( ebu ) , which is respons for the product of the eurovis song contest , publish an announc regard israel ' s particip in the contest in the context of the gaza war . in the announc , they made it clear that the decis on candid ' particip in the competit is in the hand of the ebu alon and not in the hand of other contest . they also express clear opposit to the abus or harass of contest , on or off the network . the messag ' s public may have been influenc by the threat direct at israel ' s eurovis repres eden golan or the terrorist attack in moscow in march and the grow fear of terrorist threat at eurovis . in a statement they publish on the network , they wrote : `` the ebu recogn the strong emot stir by thi year ' s eurovis song contest and the intens debat spark by the inclus of an isra entri . we would like to stress that ani decis regard particip are the respons of the ebu ' s govern bodi , not the individu artist . '' the ebu call for all artist particip in thi year & rsquo ; s eurovis song contest to be treat respect and condemn all abus and harass . for our full statement pleas go to http : // t . co / bur9tbbrlf pic . twitter . com / wvaqwggnb0 & mdash ; eurovis song contest ( @ eurovis ) april 9 , 2024 `` we are firmli against ani form of abus or harass direct at particip , onlin or offlin , and are commit to foster a safe , respect , and inclus environ . we advoc for construct dialogu and support for the artist , underlin the contest ' s mission to be ' unit by music . ' '' exclud israelthi month , the pre - eurovis event began , in the context of which mani artist from the particip countri will perform in europ , some of whom do not hesit to appear with red pin that call for a ceasefir but forget to wear the yellow ribbon that demand the return of all the hostag . in the past , israel also host similar mini - eurovis event as part of `` israel call . '' thi year , israel is not host anyon and is not invit to be host anywher . the exclus of israel is manifest in part by the fact that the event surround eurovis week in the eurovis villag ask dj particip in the parti not to play isra eurovis song `` for secur reason . '' earlier , the nation secur council publish the travel warn for isra abroad , which includ a refer to eurovis . at the end of last month , repres of nine countri that will particip in eurovis publish a joint announc in which they refer to the war between israel and hama in the gaza strip . the repres - from ireland , portug , switzerland , norway , great britain , denmark , san marino , lithuania , and finland - call for an immedi ceasefir and the return of the hostag to israel . the petit wa initi by the british pop star olli alexand , who repres britain in the competit .