the knesset pass a law help victim of terror pursu legal action against financi and support of terror , like the palestinian author , on monday . the law , promot by mk yitzhak pindro and dozen of other mk , wa approv in a vote of 19 for and two oppos . the law enabl victim of terror and their famili to demand exemplari damag from those who give wage or compens for the organ of act of terror or are otherwis liabl under israel ' s tort law . amount receiv in such lawsuit will not be deduct from the amount paid to victim of terror on behalf of the state . the law also allow these exemplari damag to be taken from ani properti of the parti su . for exampl , if the palestinian author is the defend in the lawsuit , then the damag could be taken from the tax fund collect by israel for the pa , which are current frozen due to a law pass in 2018 aim at stop the pa ' s pay - for - slay program . the law also determin that a parti that is fund terror through primari or secondari legisl or through regul , the parti will be consid a terrorist sponsor fund act of terror that could caus death or disabl until the contrari is proven . approv of law welcom by supporterssand gerber and attorney asher stub from `` justic for terror victim , '' who initi and draft the bill , welcom the law ' s approv , say , & ldquo ; the enact of thi law into israel ' s legal framework rectifi a longstand injustic endur by victim of terror and their famili . by institut a predetermin compens structur and facilit the retriev of fund from the asset of terror financi , the law aim to bolster the fight against terror and it financi network . our aspir is that thi legisl measur will not onli combat terror but ultim pave the way for it erad . & rdquo ; pindro also welcom the pass of the law , say , `` thi is an import day for the fight against terror . thi law doe justic to the state of israel , which until today ha walk a tightrop on thi issu . from now on , everyon who engag in terror will know that they will have to pay out of pocket . the countri of the world have alreadi understood what thi mean , and final , the state of israel join them . ''