the idf on wednesday night kill a terror cell in the west bank use a drone , an unusu move gener reserv for target major terrorist or rocket - fire cell in gaza . a joint statement by the idf and the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) said that intellig from the domest secur agenc had locat the terror cell in real - time as it wa perpetr a shoot attack near jalma in the menash region . عاجل | مصادر عبرية : طيران الاحتلال قصف مركبة فلسطينية شمال جنين . pic . twitter . com / doivmyzolt & mdash ; شبكة قدس الإخبارية ( @ qudsn ) june 21 , 2023accord to the statement , thi same terror cell ha recent carri out a number of shoot attack throughout judea and samaria . onc the cell wa identifi , the idf gave a rapid order to have the drone fire on and kill the cell befor they could escap again , as they have after past shoot . idf wa given green light to conduct drone strike in septemberth drone attack came onli day after the idf use a helicopt strike to help rescu ambush soldier in jenin , signal the defens establish is take off the glove in the west bank in an unpreced way - at least in comparison to recent year date back to oper defens shield in 2002 . in septemb 2022 , idf command in the west bank were given the green light to use arm drone to carri out target kill of palestinian terrorist , with the approv of then chief of staff aviv kohavi . accord to sourc , command were then allow to use the platform not onli as cover and intellig for forc dure oper but also to carri out strike should arm gunmen be identifi as pose immin threat to their troop . the order came as isra secur forc have encount a signific rise in shoot attack and massiv gunfir dure arrest raid , specif in the northern west bank citi of jenin and nablu . howev , it is onli recent that drone , helicopt and other heavier firepow platform are actual be use in a continu way . idf : three palestinian terrorist kill in drone strike `` idf soldier identifi a terrorist cell insid a suspici vehicl , after the cell carri out a shoot adjac to the town of jalamah , '' a statement from the isra militari said . `` follow the identif of the terrorist cell , an idf uav fire toward the cell and thwart them . '' idf spokesperson daniel hagari late wednesday night said that three terrorist were kill in the drone strike . hagari state that the terror cell appear to be a mix of hama and islam jihad terrorist . the idf chief spokesperson said that it wa the first time that drone had been use in thi manner in the west bank sinc 2006 ( near the end of the second intifada . ) despit the clear escal , hagari said that no one should jump to conclus about what the idf might do go forward . he push back on suggest that now the idf would for sure loosen it norm and start regularli use drone strike in the west bank . rather , he suggest that as of now , the use of the drone and of helicopt earlier in the week , wa decid upon on a case - by - case basi and that the idf ha not yet commit to a major polici chang . at the same time , these idf action have taken place simultan with mani top govern offici call for an escal in the use of forc against terror . hama ' , palestinian militari faction ' reaction & nbsp ; hama spokesman hazem qassem said what he call the `` assassin crime `` would not go unpunish . '' the use of plane by the zionist armi to assassin our peopl is a grave escal , '' said by telephon . a statement from the jenin brigad , which includ milit from differ palestinian faction , said two of the men kill belong to the palestinian islam jihad milit group and one wa from the fatah group . the islam jihad said israel must now await `` punish `` after it `` foolish act to target three of our fighter by drone and detain their bodi , '' in a statement . intern reaction to the conflictun secretari - gener antonio guterr said that `` it is crucial to reduc tension and to prevent further escal . israel , as the occupi power , must ensur that the civilian popul is protect against all act of violenc , and that perpetr are held to account , '' haq said . thi is a develop stori .