incom prime minist naftali bennett will be sworn in on sunday in the shadow of last month & rsquo ; s gaza war , domest jewish - arab unrest and amid the threat of renew idf - hama hostil , particularli over jerusalem . & nbsp ; the sequenc of event that are like to unfold in the come week , let alon the come month , would be a test under fire for ani prime minist , but will present a uniqu challeng for thi particular govern becaus of it unorthodox composit . & nbsp ; the new coalit head by bennett of the right - wing yamina parti and incom foreign minist yair lapid of the centrist yesh atid parti also includ left - wing parti and the arab islamist ra & rsquo ; am parti . & nbsp ; it & rsquo ; s a coalit that ha an unpreced ideolog rang and mani of the decis that it make are like to involv principl compromis by one or more of it member . & nbsp ; the isra - palestinian conflict is the most contenti and divis arena for thi coalit and issu relat to it are expect to be one of it weakest link . & nbsp ; it & rsquo ; s precis here , on the isra - palestinian front , the new coalit will be test , both within it first week and it first month in these four way . & nbsp ; 1 . evyatar outpost evacu & nbsp ; defens minist benni gantz , who will retain hi role in the new coalit , is pois to evacu the west bank outpost on monday , less than 24 hour after the govern is sworn in . the outpost wa built last month in the aftermath of a palestinian terror attack at the west bank tapuah junction , in which yehuda guetta , 19 , wa kill . it wa erect on a spot that settler had first attempt to settl in 2013 in the aftermath of a tapuah junction terror attack in which evyatar borovski , 31 , wa kill . & nbsp ; the reconstruct of the outpost name in evyatar & rsquo ; s memori wa larg ignor by the idf . within a month & rsquo ; s time , close to 50 famili had move onto the site . & nbsp ; prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s plea to gantz to allow the commun to remain wa ignor , so onli direct intervent by bennett can prevent it evacu . & nbsp ; should bennett interven , he would like anger the left - wing flank of hi coalit , as well as some of it centrist member , such as gantz , who head the blue and white parti . & nbsp ; such an evacu , howev , risk inflam the west bank and set off a chain of violent event . past outpost evacu were often follow by violent retaliatori attack by right - wing jewish extremist against palestinian . thi would come at a time when hama is alreadi attempt to inflam the west bank . & nbsp ; 2 . the flag march & nbsp ; polic on friday approv a parad rout for a right - wing flag march set for tuesday , just one day after the anticip west bank outpost evacu . & nbsp ; the annual event is typic associ with jerusalem day event that mark the celebr of the citi & rsquo ; s unif in the aftermath of the six day war , in which israel captur the eastern part of the citi from jordan and subsequ annex it . & nbsp ; dure jerusalem day last month , howev , marcher were prohibit from follow their tradit rout through the old citi & rsquo ; s damascu gate and the muslim quarter , and were instead expect to head through the jaffa gate . hama fire seven rocket at jerusalem dure the march , therebi offici bring it to a halt . thi month , march organ had sought to hold the march along it origin rout and in the end broker a compromis with the polic by which they would danc with flag by the damascu gate that open into the muslim quarter . & nbsp ; the area in front of the gate ha been one of the citi flashpoint for isra - palestinian violenc . polic closur of the area briefli as a place of palestinian gather in april dure the muslim holiday of ramadan wa one of the initi spark that led to may & rsquo ; s violent outbreak . & nbsp ; an isra flag danc by the damascu gate , which for the right is an import symbol of sovereignti over the citi , is similarli expect to ignit renew palestinian violenc . & nbsp ; 3 . palestinian evict in jerusalem & nbsp ; there are four exist land issu in jerusalem that could lead to the evict of thousand of palestinian from their home in three east jerusalem neighborhood . & nbsp ; the one that captur both media attent and that of hama last month wa the fate of some 28 famili in the sheikh jarrah neighborhood . the high court of justic ha yet to decid whether to weigh in on the matter or to allow for the evict to move forward . no date ha been set for it decis . & nbsp ; but date do exist for addit case . the attorney - gener is expect by the end of june to issu an opinion on a land case in silwan & rsquo ; s batan al - hawa that could impact at least 700 palestinian . & nbsp ; anoth land case regard al - bustan in silwan that could impact more than 1 , 000 palestinian ha been delay until august . some 13 famili , howev , could be in danger of lose their home , irrespect of that rule , becaus they fall under the dictat of the kaminitz law , which block them from seek ani addit legal recours . & nbsp ; one such palestinian famili wa alreadi given a notic last week that he ha 21 day to destroy half hi home , otherwis the municip would move to knock down that portion of hi abod . it & rsquo ; s a demot that could equal spark violenc and the pend evict that neighborhood have been under intent scrutini . & nbsp ; lastli , the issu of pend evict in the walaja neighborhood of east jerusalem is also due back in court on june 21 . & nbsp ; the right ha view each of the case as land issu . the one in al - bustan and walaja involv municip plan for park . the case in sheikh jarrah and batan al - hawa involv properti disput between palestinian and jew . & nbsp ; but they are seen within the larger context of the isra - palestinian conflict and place within the prism of the battl for sovereignti in jerusalem , with the left and the palestinian believ that the evict are an attempt by the citi to seiz control of palestinian neighborhood for jewish project and resid . & nbsp ; the neighborhood battl have spark tension and violenc , with the european union and the us weigh in on behalf of the palestinian . hama ha also threaten violenc as a result , and the issu of sheikh jarrah , in particular , wa one of the spark that led to may & rsquo ; s violenc . & nbsp ; 4 . gaza & nbsp ; the idf - hama 11 - day war end on may 21 , but it & rsquo ; s unclear if the calm is a lull in the war or the end of thi round of violenc . hama ha alreadi renew it threat of more rocket fire with regard to the flag march and there exist a real chanc it could make good on it threat . & nbsp ; bennett and lapid & rsquo ; s coalit could be in the posit in it first week of decid whether and how to retali should that happen . it would mark the first time that israel would have a coalit with diverg view on how to handl hama rocket . & nbsp ; when netanyahu becam prime minist in 2009 , hama had been in charg of gaza for less than two year , have oust fatah in a bloodi coup in 2007 . the initi gaza polici and the first gaza war occur under former prime minist ehud olmert & rsquo ; s watch . & nbsp ; the bulk of the gaza polici , howev & ndash ; includ the 2012 and 2014 war , as well as the border restrict on good & ndash ; ha been set by netanyahu . it wa one of the area of consensu within hi govern . the disagr that exist center around the question of whether israel had been hash enough , rather than too lenient . & nbsp ; bennett , who often critic netanyahu for not do enough on gaza , particularli with respect to the tunnel threat , will now have to decid how harsh a respons he would author . & nbsp ; even without violenc , other question must immedi be answer , particularli with regard to what type of good can enter gaza and what mechan can be put in place to ensur that hama can not divert materi for militari use . & nbsp ; the term of the calm between the idf and hama that is now in place have yet to be set . egypt is mediat indirect talk . it is still attempt to final those detail while at the same time attempt to creat a perman ceasefir that could includ the return of the remain of two idf soldier and the releas of two isra citizen held by hama . & nbsp ; all these issu must now be dealt with by the bennett govern , with the possibl that the failur to find a satisfactori respons could lead to renew violenc . & nbsp ; egypt ha also chosen thi time to becom more involv in gaza , a move that could potenti lower the possibl of renew hama rocket fire , but which may lead to tension point with israel .