israel will forev be grate to us presid joe biden for the support that he show the batter countri in the day immedi follow the octob 7 massacr . israel will forev be grate for the way he stood by the countri in it darkest hour , how he warn iran and it proxi hezbollah not to take advantag of the situat and fulli open other front against israel , and how he sent us aircraft carrier strike forc to the region to back up those warn . and , inde , iran and hezbollah were deter . israel will forev be grate for the way biden immedi launch an arm airlift to the countri , make good on hi promis to ensur that israel ha the wherewith to defend itself . the countri will also long rememb the way he came here 11 day after hama & rsquo ; s attack , the first us presid to visit israel in time of war , and reliev the countri & rsquo ; s stun feel of isol by demonstr genuin sympathi and empathi . mani , frankli , were surpris by the democrat presid & rsquo ; s unequivoc , unstint support . in the day and week immedi follow octob 7 , biden did the right thing by israel . hama welcom the resolut that the us allow to passon monday , by instruct the us not to veto secur council resolut 2728 call for an immedi ceasefir for ramadan that will lead to a & ldquo ; last sustain & rdquo ; ceasefir but not make that conting on the secur council & rsquo ; s call in the same resolut for hama & ndash ; which it ha yet to condemn for octob 7 & ndash ; to releas all the hostag , he did the wrong thing by israel . it did not take long for the consequ of thi action to be felt . just hour after hama welcom the resolut ( imagin the un secur council pass a resolut that isi or al - qaeda , hama & rsquo ; s twin , would welcom ) , the terrorist organ turn down the term painstakingli hammer out in week of negoti for a ceasefir and hostag releas deal . the refus of the secur council to even onc & ndash ; either through a resolut or in a statement put out by it presid & ndash ; condemn hama for it octob 7 atroc is stagger . especi consid that the council know how to condemn terror when israel is not on the receiv end . for exampl , on march 22 , one day after a terrorist attack in moscow kill some 140 peopl , the council issu a statement condemn & ldquo ; in the strongest term the heinou and cowardli terrorist attack . & rdquo ; the council swiftli issu a similar statement on wednesday , within 24 hour of when a suicid bomber in pakistan kill five chines worker and their pakistani driver . yet it & rsquo ; s now 174 day sinc terrorist murder 1 , 200 peopl in israel , kidnap more than 240 hostag , rape women , burn babi , mutil bodi , set fire to entir commun , and no similar statement from the secur council ha yet been issu . and some still wonder whi isra are cynic of world opinion and not particularli move by secur council action . it is clear whi hama reject the hostag dealjust as it wa clear whi hama would welcom monday & rsquo ; s secur council resolut , it is also equal clear whi it reject the hostag deal on the tabl . hama welcom the resolut despit it call for an immedi releas of all the hostag , becaus it know that the world will focu on the first part of the first claus in the nonbind resolut & ndash ; press israel hard to stop the fight & ndash ; and pay less attent to the second part of that same claus : a call for hama to releas all the hostag . whi will the world not press the second part of that claus ? becaus it know full well that hama oper way outsid the bound of civil societi and that the terrorist organ is not go to heed ani such call . it wa also clear follow the resolut that hama would stiffen it condit on a hostag deal , sens that if it just hold out longer , intern pressur will forc israel to stop the war , enabl the terrorist group to surviv to fight & ndash ; mean to murder , rape , and mutil & ndash ; anoth day . secur council resolut 2728 undoubtedli strengthen hama & rsquo ; s feel that the intern commun would & ldquo ; deliv & rdquo ; israel . prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s offic put out a statement say as much on tuesday . & ldquo ; hama & rsquo ; s stanc clearli demonstr it utter disinterest in a negoti deal and attest to the damag done by the un secur council & rsquo ; s resolut . & rdquo ; while there is a tendenc among mani pundit and most opposit politician to reject anyth netanyahu say and to reflex place the blame on netanyahu rather than biden whenev the two are at odd , in thi case , that reflex is misplac . put asid whether , as a result of the us failur to veto the resolut , it wa wise for netanyahu to cancel strateg affair minist ron dermer and nation secur council head tzachi hanegbi & rsquo ; s trip to washington thi week to consult on how to pursu the war in rafah ( it wasn & rsquo ; t ) , and whether move such as these have polit motiv ( they do ) . nevertheless , netanyahu is not alway to blame in these confront with america , nor is biden alway free of fault . don ' t assum that anoth pm would have better relat with the uson tuesday , one lead columnist wrote in yediot aharonot : & ldquo ; do we need anyth more than what is happen in our relat with america to understand the abyss the prime minist is lead us into ? what els need to happen to understand that everi addit day he sit in hi chair , our intern situat deterior , and the crisi with our biggest and onli friend & ndash ; our arm supplier & ndash ; get wors ? & rdquo ; the columnist assum that were someon els sit in the prime minist & rsquo ; s chair right now , with the war in gaza in it sixth month and pictur of palestinian suffer flood the tradit and social media in the west , israel & rsquo ; s situat in the world would be ani better . but that is an erron assumpt . had even yesh atid & rsquo ; s yair lapid been prime minist when octob 7 happen , it is hard to believ that the countri & rsquo ; s polici toward hama and the idf & rsquo ; s way of prosecut the war would be that significantli differ from what they are now . while perhap there would be more of an emphasi on the & ldquo ; day after & rdquo ; and a more recept ear to intern plea for more humanitarian aid into gaza , israel would have the same war aim it ha now of destroy hama & rsquo ; s capabl . that aim & ndash ; unfortun , becaus of the way hama ha chosen to fight & ndash ; will lead to a high number of palestinian civilian casualti and much palestinian suffer , regardless of who is sit in the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic . and it is those casualti and that suffer that , more than anyth , are drive the wedg between jerusalem and washington . if you doubt thi , look back to the day of the naftali bennett and lapid tag - team govern and think whether israel & rsquo ; s posit among the progress democrat in the us wa that much better than it is under netanyahu . it wasn & rsquo ; t , becaus the anti - israel progress and & ldquo ; social justic activist & rdquo ; who are all impact biden & rsquo ; s polici right now dure an elect year are oppos not onli to netanyahu but to israel itself , regardless of who lead the countri . in their mind , israel is an instrument of white supremaci and imperi , and regardless of the ident of the prime minist or composit of hi govern , the jewish state would still be an illegitim , racist , colonialist enterpris in their eye . us offici were quot as say that netanyahu & rsquo ; s decis not to send dermer and hanegbi to washington for consult wa motiv by polit consider . and they are probabl right . be seen as will to stand up to us pressur play well polit with netanyahu & rsquo ; s base . but there is someth disingenu in thi critic of netanyahu for let polit consider influenc hi polici . are not polit consider now also heavili influenc biden & rsquo ; s polici in thi crisi ? last month , the us veto a similar resolut at the secur council call for an immedi ceasefir . whi did it not do the same thing now ? what chang in the interim ? sever thing chang . among them is that the casualti figur in gaza continu to rise , and anoth is that biden is get pound by progress democrat and arab american for hi support of israel . biden & rsquo ; s tone and the tone of hi administr have chang markedli in the last two month , and that ha to do with arab american vote & ndash ; or not vote & ndash ; in michigan and with progress unenthus by the biden campaign , harshli critic of hi israel polici , and threaten either to vote for a third parti candid or stay at home on elect day , novemb 5 . both biden and netanyahu are polit anim , and both are use their disagr for their own polit purpos . but to say thi is all netanyahu & rsquo ; s fault , and that israel & rsquo ; s posit in the world and in washington would be sterl even amid a war such as thi if someon els were call the shot in jerusalem , is unrealist . thi doesn & rsquo ; t mean that netanyahu & rsquo ; s handl of the relationship with the us dure the war ha been flawless . it most definit ha not . for exampl , netanyahu could have play monday & rsquo ; s secur council resolut complet differ & ndash ; accept a two - week ceasefir for the durat of ramadan to win favor with the biden administr and the world , and then resum fight at the end of the muslim holi month if hama did not releas the hostag . at that point , israel could say that it fulfil the resolut , but hama did not & ndash ; place the onu on the terrorist organ . netanyahu could have done thing differ , but not all the tension in the relationship can be dump on hi doorstep . netanyahu & ndash ; with all hi fault & ndash ; is not alway wrong , nor is biden & ndash ; with all the support he ha given israel sinc octob 7 & ndash ; alway right , as variou opposit leader and lead voic in the media lament the current tension in the relationship would have one believ . monday & rsquo ; s secur council resolut is a case in point .