sheikh bilal abu hassan , a mosqu preacher from jenin , wa surpris last week to receiv a letter from the palestinian author ministri of waqf and religi affair inform him of the decis to fire him . abu hassan lost hi job becaus of a khutbah ( sermon ) he recent deliv dure friday prayer at one of jenin & rsquo ; s mosqu and in which he heap prais on the palestinian faction , includ hama , in the gaza strip . refer to the israel - hama war last may , abu hassan applaud the & ldquo ; joint oper room , & rdquo ; which consist of variou palestinian faction that oper as a quasi - armi against israel . & ldquo ; our joint oper room ha unifi the palestinian , & rdquo ; he said from the minbar , a pulpit in a mosqu where the imam ( leader of prayer ) stand to deliv sermon . & ldquo ; thi is the true mean of palestinian nation uniti . & rdquo ; the mosqu preacher in the west bank are appoint by the pa ministri of waqf and religi affair . everi week , the ministri issu a direct to the imam concern the friday sermon . the direct includ instruct about the topic the imam should address dure the sermon . occasion , the ministri also issu instruct regard the topic that the imam are prohibit from address . those who defi the instruct of the ministri are often punish by suspens or dismiss , as in the case of abu hassan . on wednesday , as palestinian were voic support for the six palestinian secur prison who escap from gilboa prison and protest israel & rsquo ; s punit measur against the inmat in variou prison , the pa ministri of waqf and religi affair announc that the topic of friday & rsquo ; s sermon ( septemb 10 ) will be : & ldquo ; high moral in islam . & rdquo ; the implicit messag to the preacher : ignor the fugit who escap from isra prison . the last thing the pa want is for preacher who are on it payrol to stand in a mosqu and prais , in front of thousand of worship , member of palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) . ( five of the men who escap are member of the iranian - back terrorist group ) . the jailbreak is seen by mani palestinian as an embarrass not onli for israel , but for the pa too . the escap came at a time when relat between israel and the pa appear to be improv , especi after the recent meet in ramallah between pa presid mahmoud abba and defens minist benni gantz . now , the pa and it senior offici and spokesmen are be forc to publicli endors the pij fugit as & ldquo ; hero & rdquo ; and issu strong condemn against israel becaus of the ensu crackdown on hundr of pij inmat , who are be transfer to other prison . the pa is be forc to toe the line and join the palestinian public & rsquo ; s campaign of solidar with the fugit and the other prison becaus it doe not want to be seen as sit on the fenc or , wors , be in collus with israel . the pa ha long been face sever critic for it ongo secur coordin with israel . moreov , it regularli come under attack for fail to secur the releas of prison . thi week , at the jenin refuge camp , home of zakaria zubeidi , the onli fatah member among the fugit , even promin fatah activist were critic of abba becaus of hi alleg rapproch with the isra govern and the biden administr . the activist accus the pa leadership of & ldquo ; abandon & rdquo ; it support in the jenin area , especi the arm men who are want by israel . to ensur that the mosqu preacher abid by the instruct , the pa secur forc regularli deploy inform to the mosqu to listen to the sermon and report to their handler . as far as the pa is concern , critic of senior palestinian offici , especi dure friday prayer , is a crime that can even land the perpetr in prison . the same appli to ani preacher who dare to heap prais on hama or other group oppos to the polici of the pa leadership . the pa is not oppos to mass demonstr in the west bank in solidar with the palestinian prison . but the pa leader also know that an escal could deterior into anoth all - out war with israel , someth that is like to further undermin the pa & rsquo ; s credibl and stand and boost the popular of hama and pij , as wa the case after the last israel - hama confront in may . there are two issu that are consid the most explos and sensit among the palestinian : secur prison and al - aqsa mosqu . if the palestinian decid to launch anoth intifada , it will be over one or both of these issu . the dismiss of abu hassan and the continu crackdown on hama and pij member is yet anoth sign of mount tension between the pa and hama . the latest tension began immedi after the last war in the gaza strip , when thousand of palestinian took to the street in the west bank to celebr hama & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; victori & rdquo ; over israel . score of palestinian have sinc been arrest or summon for interrog for particip in the pro - hama demonstr or voic support for the islamist movement on social media platform . the pa crackdown mark the end of a short - live honeymoon with hama that began more than a year ago . the two parti have been at loggerhead sinc 2006 , when hama won the palestinian parliamentari elect . the crisi reach it peak in the summer of 2007 , when hama seiz control of the entir gaza strip after toppl the pa . sinc then , attempt by saudi arabia , egypt , qatar and turkey to end the pa - hama rivalri have hit a snag . the administr of former us presid donald trump , howev , usher in a period of reconcili between the rival palestinian parti . a plan by the govern of former prime minist benjamin netanyahu to appli isra sovereignti to part of the west bank also acceler the reconcili process . trump & rsquo ; s plan for mideast peac , & ldquo ; peac to prosper , & rdquo ; and netanyahu & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; annex & rdquo ; scheme , which were reject by both the pa and hama as a conspiraci to liquid the palestinian issu and palestinian & rsquo ; nation right , prompt the palestinian leader in ramallah and the gaza strip to resum attempt to end their disput . in juli 2020 , jibril rajoub , secretari - gener of the pa & rsquo ; s rule fatah faction , and saleh arouri , deputi chairman of the hama politburo , announc that they had reach an agreement & ldquo ; to speak in one voic and under one flag , the palestinian flag , to build a strateg vision to face the challeng . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; we are now talk about a joint struggl , a campaign on the ground , & rdquo ; rajoub said , call hama a full partner . & ldquo ; we call on all palestinian faction to see cooper between hama and fatah as a histor opportun for a joint fight to establish a palestinian state and oppos the isra occup . & rdquo ; two month later , rajoub and arouri held anoth meet in istanbul , to promot the reconcili between the two parti . the meet end with an agreement to hold elect for the palestinian presid and parliament , as well as the plo & rsquo ; s legisl bodi , or parliament - in - exil , the palestinian nation council . fatah and hama leader who later met in cairo under the auspic of egypt & rsquo ; s gener intellig servic agre on the elector vote procedur , pave the way for abba to issu a decre set date for the elect . as part of the reconcili process , hama form it own list of candid for the parliamentari elect , which wa suppos to take place on may 22 . the list includ 132 candid from the west bank , gaza strip and east jerusalem . in late april , howev , abba announc the postpon of the elect on the pretext that israel had not approv hi request to hold the vote in east jerusalem . & ldquo ; face thi difficult situat , we decid to postpon the date of hold legisl elect until the particip of jerusalem is guarante , & rdquo ; abba declar . in respons , hama denounc the decis , dub it a & ldquo ; coup against the path of nation partnership and consensu . & rdquo ; hama and other palestinian are convinc that abba decid to call off the vote becaus of hi fear that fatah , which wa run on three separ slate , wa head toward anoth defeat , similar to the one in the 2006 parliamentari elect . & ldquo ; for them , it & rsquo ; s evid that abba use the controversi surround jerusalem as an excus to cancel the elect , & rdquo ; said palestinian polit analyst amer ashhab . & ldquo ; abba & rsquo ; s decis wa also seen by hama as the end of the reconcili process with the palestinian author . & rdquo ; but other analyst said the defeat of trump in the us presidenti elect wa anoth reason whi abba decid to delay the elect . & ldquo ; abba receiv posit messag from the administr of presid joe biden , & rdquo ; said polit analyst and columnist moham abu diab . & ldquo ; had trump won , abba would have proceed with hi plan to achiev uniti with hama . & rdquo ; eager to resum contact with the us , abba and other palestinian offici in ramallah welcom the departur of the trump administr and signal their desir to resum their tie with washington . the pa leadership had sever tie with the us after trump & rsquo ; s 2017 decis to recogn jerusalem as the capit of israel . the departur of netanyahu from the polit scene and the format of the new govern wa also receiv with a sigh of relief in ramallah . the restor of relat between the pa and the us administr and the improv tie between ramallah and the govern of prime minist naftali bennett saw abba move further away from hama . the talk about nation reconcili between the pa and hama ha been replac with statement by abba and other palestinian offici concern the need to resum the isra - palestinian peac process . these are good & nbsp ; time for the pa and abba , provid that thi week & rsquo ; s mass demonstr in support of the palestinian inmat do not lead to anoth major confront with israel . the biden administr ha reviv the talk about a two - state solut as the onli way to resolv the conflict and state it opposit to ani step by either side that risk spark violenc or undermin the prospect for return to the pursuit of two state . addit , the biden administr ha been say it believ palestinian and isra & ldquo ; deserv equal measur of secur , freedom , opportun and digniti . & rdquo ; thi rhetor , in addit to the resumpt of us financi aid to the palestinian , obvious contribut to abba & rsquo ; s decis to again turn hi back on hama . the isra govern & rsquo ; s decis to resum high - level contact with the pa leadership is also seen by some palestinian as anoth reason behind abba steer clear of hama . abba know that he stand to gain more by align himself with the us and israel than make peac with hama , some of whose leader have never miss an opportun to denounc him as a & ldquo ; traitor & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; collabor & rdquo ; with the enemi of the palestinian . for abba , an allianc with the us and israel is tantamount to an insur polici for the surviv of the pa . he also know that such an allianc doe not come without a price , make him less popular among the palestinian . on the other hand , abba is well awar that make peac with hama would onli spell troubl . he is not in a rush to return to the gaza strip and pay salari to ten of thousand of palestinian . he know that even if he return to the coastal enclav , he and hi secur forc will never be abl to disarm the variou terrorist group or prevent them from launch rocket and incendiari balloon into israel . abba also know that ani deal he strike with hama will jeopard hi relat not onli with israel , but with the us and the european union too . when palestinian businessman munib al - masri late ask abba about hi condit for incorpor hama into a palestinian uniti govern , the pa leader told him that the group must first accept all intern resolut pertain to the isra - arab conflict . abba , in other word , demand that hama recogn israel & rsquo ; s right to exist . hama wa quick to reject the demand , accus abba of act on behalf of the us and israel to & ldquo ; blackmail & rdquo ; the group into abandon it ideolog and principl . & ldquo ; hama is not seriou about end the conflict with fatah , & rdquo ; said a senior palestinian offici . & ldquo ; hama want to continu rule the gaza strip with the hope of turn it into an islam emir . hama is serv the agenda of foreign power , includ iran and qatar , who want to see the palestinian divid forev . & rdquo ; in mani way , it is safe to assum that abba is comfort with the statu quo , which absolv him of respons for what happen in the gaza strip . the secur coordin between the pa secur forc and the idf also serv as an insur polici for the surviv of the palestinian leadership in ramallah . abba know that as long as israel maintain a secur presenc in the west bank , hama will never succeed in extend it control beyond the gaza strip . the current strategi of the pa is to strengthen it relat with the us administr with the hope that such a move would ensur the continu flow of financi aid to the palestinian . and despit it public critic of israel , the pa leadership seem to be rel satisfi with the new and less hostil approach of the isra govern . the closer abba move toward the us and israel , the farther he move away from hama . thi leav hama with one option : enhanc it tie with iran , qatar and turkey as a way of tighten it grip on the gaza strip . the split between the west bank and gaza strip , long regard by mani palestinian as a fait accompli , is like to continu even in the post - abba era becaus most of the offici surround him are not known as fan of reconcili with hama .