there & rsquo ; s a chang of the guard at hadassah academ colleg where prof . ariela gordon - shaag is succeed prof . bertold fridlend , who ha held the posit for the past 12 year . gordon - shaag will offici take up her posit on juli 1 . hac ha grown consider over the past decad , offer ba and ma degre and doubl it student popul , which now stand in excess of 4 , 500 . gordon - shaag complet her ba in 1990 at columbia univers with a major in chemistri ( magna cum laud ) . she earn her msc and phd in 2002 at the hebrew univers , special in genet and molecular biolog . her interest in vision scienc develop dure her post - doctor train at the univers of washington and continu at the hebrew univers , where she studi phototransduct . in 2007 , she establish hac & rsquo ; s master & rsquo ; s program in optometri and direct it until 2013 . she subsequ becam the chairperson of the depart of optometri at the colleg , serv in that posit from 2014 - 2023 . she wa recent appoint chair of the interdisciplinari faculti for scienc , health and societi . gordon - shaag & rsquo ; s current research interest are in the cornea , keratoconu , and the etiolog of myopia . she ha publish numer scientif paper in peer - review journal on these topic . her studi in environment and behavior factor associ with myopia have been aid by a grant from the binat scienc foundat . in recent year , hac ha undergon signific develop in it curricula and research project and is now in the process of plan futur strategi . gordon - shag is a great believ in innov and ha taken innov approach in her own research . purim fun in jerusalem ■ bear in mind that purim thi year will not be quit as merri a festiv as usual , danni bonfil , chairman of the jerusalem district divis of the histadrut labor feder , and avi ederi , ceo of cinema citi , put their head togeth to devis a memor and excit purim event , design particularli to bring some cheer to all the displac children in jerusalem who were evacu from their home . they came up with & ldquo ; fantasi in the circu & rdquo ; direct by yaniv suissa , which is part of a larger carniv and will thrill both adult and children & ndash ; therebi make it a famili affair . it will , of cours , be open to the perman resid of jerusalem . entranc is free of charg , which is a real boon to parent of larg famili . a tribut to a late presid ■ the english - speak sophi udin club of na & rsquo ; amat will hold a memori tribut to it late presid judi telman at 1 p . m . on wednesday , march 27 . telman , who spent more than half of her life in chicago , came on aliyah in 1983 , join the sophi udin club and spent mani year as it presid , continu until her death on februari 26 at the age of 92 . her friend say that even as she lay die in hospit , she continu to care for na & rsquo ; amat and it fundrais project , and to direct the oper of the club . she wa particularli interest in rais fund for project that help advanc and strengthen the statu of women in the famili , in the workforc , and in societi . the tribut luncheon , at the meshanot build & ndash ; corner of shalom aleichem and jabotinski street , where telman wa such a frequent presenc over the year & ndash ; will be address by na & rsquo ; amat nation presid chagit pe & rsquo ; er ; intern coordin shirli shavit ; and head of jerusalem na & rsquo ; amat ilana daniel . telman & rsquo ; s son muki telman , who live at kibbutz grofit , and edith paller , repres the sophi udin chapter , will also speak . jewish heroin ■ opinion is divid as to whether mordechai or esther is the true hero of purim , although convent wisdom ha credit esther with be the savior of her peopl . but hero and heroin often depend on how much one know of the stori . there are some who would give kudo to vashti , who defi the king by refus to appear at hi banquet . it & rsquo ; s not certain whether she wa banish or execut by way of punish , but suffic it to say that she disappear , and the path wa open for esther . histori might have turn out quit differ had vashti been more obedi . in fact , there would not be a purim on which to celebr . esther wa neither the first nor the last of jewish heroin . we have seen ampl evid of that in the current sword of iron war . mani book have been written about outstand jewish women . some have focus on onli one ; other , on a group . former mk aliza lavi recent publish her book icon jewish women : fifti - nine inspir , courag , revolutionari role model for young girl . a launch wa held in jerusalem on monday night at which lavi engag in convers with elana sztokman and yudit sidikman . as ambiti as write a book about 59 inspir jewish women is , it still ha a way to go to catch up with the encyclopedia of jewish women , the comprehens , histor saga of jewish women through the age compil and written by alic and mosh shalvi , alic have die right befor the gaza war . judg by all the femal achiev featur at numer confer thi year , futur historian focus on the same subject will have a hard time decid whom to includ . greerfc @ gmail . com