the prestigi brand jack kuba launch it women ’ s swimwear collect for the summer of 2024 . the divers collect includ shapewear swimwear , swimwear in trendi design that come in a varieti of cut , swimwear in bra size for an ideal fit of the cup size and circumfer , and a collect of beachwear and accessori for a perfect total look ! shapewear swimwear - look one size smaller in 60 second ! the most famou and best - sell shapewear swimwear in the world . made with innov technolog , from a fabric regist as a patent that shape the bodi three time more than ani other slim swimsuit , tone and shape the bodi while maintain maximum comfort and a feel of self - confid . for everi woman , in ani size , up to size 56 ! the shapewear swimwear come in the widest and richest varieti of shade , design , and innov cut . the built - in bra in the swimwear give maximum support to the chest and shape it in a flatter and natur way . maximum comfort , doesn ’ t restrict movement , and look like a normal swimsuit ( hidden slim technolog ) . the item you can find have a varieti of cut and pattern : one - shoulder , low necklin , shape - enhanc , thick or thin strap , see - through , and more . color : floral pattern , delic spot , and bright shade , among them : red , green , purpl , and royal blue , along with the etern classic black . expert tip : don ' t be tempt to take a size less but exactli your size . stretch swimwear - the new gener of swimwear . the collect is made of innov technolog fabric , with except elast , soft , pleasant , and seamless for maximum comfort , and dri complet within an hour and a half . the swimwear is offer in two size : xs / s , m / l and in four fashion color : classic black and tie - dye with green , blue , red , and orang . glam swimwear - the swimwear that will give you a particularli glamor look . the collect correspond with the most sought - after trend for summer ’ 24 and look like part of a festiv even look . come in a wide varieti of cut : bottom - bikini , brazilian , thong , and high cut . bra - with or without underwir , strap or strapless , triangl cut , and balconett . you can choos a set or choos underwear and a top and combin them . in addit , you can find complet swimsuit and swimsuit with cut - out open . use lurex fabric , spot print , zebra , floral , and print that look like crochet . a combin of black and white , a combin of gold , a combin of accessori - gold hoop . color - trendi yellow , red , black , and white combin , spot , green , floral , purpl , metal , and more . beach cloth - everyth you need to complet a perfect total summer look for the pool and the beach . the beach cloth are made from qualiti fabric : chiffon , lace , crochet , and cotton . the collect offer a huge select of kaftan , one - size chiffon fabric ( suitabl for size from extra small to extra - extra - larg ) , as well as a lace collect that includ a dress , short , skirt , and long pant , crochet beach dress , and a huge select of chiffon dress . color - spot pattern , zebra , color combin : black and white , blue and purpl , light blue and pink . each swimsuit can be match with a bra accord to person tast , or purchas as a match set . consum price : shapewear swimwear - from ni 800glam swimwear - from ni 300stretch swimwear - ni 578beach cloth - from ni 237avail at the jack kuba chain of store and websit .