noth can replac direct negoti between the two parti in attempt to resolv the isra - palestinian conflict , israel @ @ @ s ambassador to the unit kingdom tzipi hotov said on monday . for the second time in less than a week hotov wa particip in a panel discuss with her counterpart from the unit arab emir and bahrain mansoor abulhoul and shaikh fawaz bin moham al khalifa . the event organ by the middl east and north african forum at cambridg univers , wa moder by sir john jenkin , whose numer diplomat appoint includ ambassadorship in libya , syria , iraq and saudi arabia . he also serv as consul gener in jerusalem and earli in hi career saw servic in abu dhabi and kuwait & ndash ; all of which make him an expert on the middl east . after the & nbsp ; three ambassador had discuss the import of the abraham accord in term of enhanc peopl to peopl contact in all area and at all level , jenkin ask about the futur of the palestinian in view of the fact that they had object to the abraham accord . hotov repli that it wa up to the palestinian to decid where they want to be . & quot ; we respect intern actor , & quot ; she said , & quot ; but they can not replac both side . & quot ; she wa adam that onli direct negoti can lead to an end to the conflict , and repeat thi when ask about the relev of the unit nation in the middl east , say that the un can not replac the dynam between the countri in the region . & quot ; it can not replac direct contact . & quot ; al khalifa said that the palestinian issu wa not so close to the gulf state . peac had been offer to the palestinian mani time , he comment , & quot ; and they didn @ @ @ t take it . & quot ; the abraham accord were not a substitut for restart palestinian and isra negoti , said abulhoul . & quot ; it must be someth between the palestinian and the isra themselv . & quot ; but he acknowledg that as a result of the relationship between the uae and israel , the uae will be in a better posit to help the palestinian . hotov wa evas as to whether there will eventu be a palestinian state , but made it clear that no matter what , jerusalem will remain unit . she also suggest that more thought be given to new negoti formula .