as swiftli as a hurrican , israel & rsquo ; s eurovis contest , eden golan , shot up the bet tabl from eighth place to the number two spot follow her perform in the second semi - final at the 68th eurovis song contest in malmo , sweden on thursday night , in which she secur a place in the grand final , which will take place on saturday . although there were protest outsid the arena and the 20 - year - old golan wa boo by as she sang & ldquo ; hurrican , & rdquo ; she also receiv thunder applaus , win heart around the world with her grace under pressur . voter around the world enjoy her perform enough to put her into the final . the result of each countri & rsquo ; s vote is meant to be secret , but rai , the italian broadcast , briefli show the detail breakdown on screen which reveal that golan had won 39 . 3 % of it countri & rsquo ; s vote . rai ha sinc said that the result it releas were `` incomplet . '' and here is a graphic of the televot odd , show israel in first place : http : // eurovisionworld . com / odd / eurovis - telewheth she will do as well in the grand final , in which the result will be determin by nation juri from the particip countri as well as by fan from around the world , remain to be seen . israel is now predict to win the televot , with the oddsmak give golan a 43 % chanc of a televot win . but she is predict to come in fifth in the juri vote , which will mean that she will ultim finish second to the favorit , croatia ' s babi lasagna with the high - energi song , `` rim tim tagi dim . `` & nbsp ; but her perform thursday and the result score were a triumph for golan and for israel . each shout from the crowd seem onli to enhanc the preternatur pois golan & rsquo ; s perform , as she hit everi note and danc move perfectli . far more experienc perform might have crack under the kind of pressur and distract that golan face , but she tune them out and did her best work to date . `` i didn ' t hear the boo , '' she said in a press confer follow the semi - final . `` i wa complet focus . i felt no apprehens and no fear . '' sometim a song is just a song and eurovis is just a fun song contest that israel tend to do well in , which it ha won four time in the past . but not thi year . israel ' s journey through eurovis conflictat first , it wasn & rsquo ; t even clear that israel would send a contest becaus of the war that start follow the hama massacr in israel on octob 7 . it wa decid that the best choic would be to particip , but to use the song and the platform to acknowledg the tragedi . the shadow of the war hover over the next star for eurovis contest , as shaul greenglick , who appear in earli decemb , wa kill in the fight in the gaza strip . greenglick , 26 , from ra & rsquo ; anana , an offic in the nahal brigad & rsquo ; s 931st battalion , wore hi uniform to perform and sang the song & ldquo ; blind bat & rdquo ; by hanan ben ari . the judg were enthusiast about hi perform , and he would have advanc to the next round . golan , a polish and experienc perform , who wa a child star in russia , where she spent much of her childhood due to her father & rsquo ; s work , won the contest and isra eurovis fan rejoic . but even while isra were pleas with golan , there were difficulti over the first song chosen by israel , & ldquo ; octob rain , & rdquo ; becaus it contain refer to the massacr , which the european broadcast union ( ebu ) , sponsor of the contest , found too overtli polit . it wa eventu replac by & ldquo ; hurrican , & rdquo ; which contain softer lyric , but still seem to refer to recent event . the music video releas with the song seem to show golan and dancer in a field like where the supernova music festiv , where almost 400 concertgo and staff were kill on octob 7 and anoth 400 were kidnap , took place . the song by avi ohayon , keren pele , and stav berger , contain these lyric in english , & ldquo ; everi day , i ' m losin ' my mind ... dancin & rsquo ; in the storm / i got noth to hide / take it all and leav the world behind / babi promis me you & rsquo ; ll hold me again / i & rsquo ; m still broken from thi hurrican , & rdquo ; with addit lyric in hebrew : & ldquo ; we don & rsquo ; t need big word , just prayer / even if it & rsquo ; s hard to see / you alway leav me one littl light . & rdquo ; the costum are sand - color strip of cloth , veri differ from the usual bodi - bare , flashi eurovis look , and were design by alon livn and style by itay bezal , that look like torn cloth or bandag and the dancer move in a loos - limb but focus way that wa reminisc of batsheva choreograph ohad naharin & rsquo ; s gaga techniqu . it isn & rsquo ; t a stretch to see the song as the word of a young woman who ha lost the love of her life in the massacr look back and honor hi memori . but it wasn & rsquo ; t onli israel & rsquo ; s song choic that rais the stake thi year . thousand of artist , mainli from ireland and scandinavia , call for israel to be ban and for artist to boycott the event , although none did . malmo ha a larg muslim popul much of which , accord to media report , are particularli hostil to israel . the isra govern issu travel warn for isra attend to the event and the head of the shin bet secur agenc , ronen bar , went to malmo to person supervis golan & rsquo ; s secur . golan and her entourag were advis to stay in their hotel room at all time when not perform . on thursday , protest includ climat activist greta thunberg demonstr near the arena , accus israel of commit genocid and be an apartheid state . not mani peopl outsid sweden know that thunberg & rsquo ; s mother , malena ernman , is a profession singer who repres sweden in eurovis in 2009 , finish in 21st place . that wa the year that israel sent noa and mira awad , a jew and a christian arab , to compet . the duo finish in 16th place with their song , & ldquo ; there must be anoth way , & rdquo ; which celebr coexist , although if her mother ever told her about that , thunberg seem to have forgotten on thursday . golan and the isra deleg had secur like a head of state , with a motorcad compris of dozen of car accompani her from her hotel to the venu . but golan said in numer interview that she had felt onli & ldquo ; good vibe & rdquo ; from her fellow contest , although there were sign that not everyon wa so accept of her presenc . dure a press confer after she advanc to the final , a polish journalist ask golan , & ldquo ; have you ever thought that by be here , you bring risk and danger for other particip ? & rdquo ; told she didn ' t have to answer the question , golan respond , nonetheless , & ldquo ; i think we & rsquo ; re all here for one reason , and one reason onli . and the ebu is take all safeti precaut to make thi a safe and unit place for everyon , so i think it & rsquo ; s safe for everyon . & rdquo ; rylan clark , one of the bbc host of eurovis coverag , ha been do interview with contest that he post on tiktok , but he didn & rsquo ; t interview golan in person , which won him prais from some , while other point out he did not person interview everi perform . belgium ' s repres , mustii , had the word `` peac `` written on hi arm dure hi perform at the semi - final . the flemish broadcast author in belgium open the eurovis broadcast on thursday night with a protest slide against israel that said , `` we condemn israel ' s violat of human right , which also harm the freedom of the press . ceasefir now . '' the finnish singer , kaarija , who repres hi countri last year with the catchi , & ldquo ; cha cha cha , & rdquo ; danc with golan backstag as camera roll . the video wa post to social media by kan , which sponsor and broadcast eurovis in israel , and other place , but he later post a disclaim to instagram that said , `` i happen to meet israel ' s eurovis repres today , and a video wa film of us . it wa then post on social media without my permiss . despit my request for it remov , it ha not been taken down . i would like to clarifi and emphas that the video is not a polit statement or an endors of ani kind . '' swedish singer eric saad perform in the open of the first semi final with a keffiya wrap around hi hand , although polit symbol are ban . a spokeswoman for the ebu said : `` the eurovis song contest is a live tv show . all perform are made awar of the rule of the contest , and we regret that eric saad chose to compromis the non - polit natur of the event . '' the ebu did not post footag of saad to it social media account . ireland & rsquo ; s bambi thug , who qualifi for the final on tuesday night , wa requir by the produc to remov pro - palestinian messag from their costum when they perform . other show their displeasur over the particip of israel in differ way . a eurovis song contest view parti at new york citi ' s 3 dollar bill bar wa cancel on thursday after golan advanc to the final . the `` queer - own and oper nightclub `` apolog for schedul the event and said that host the parti did not align with their valu . `` we understand the concern rais by our commun regard the need for boycott , '' said the bar , ad the hashtag `` never again for anyon . '' the organ of eurovis parti london , one of that citi & rsquo ; s largest and most popular watch parti , cancel it event two month ago , cite israel & rsquo ; s particip in eurovis as the reason for the cancel , and a number of other british venu follow suit . in berlin , some bar cancel their watch parti or turn them into event to support palestinian in gaza , but most of the parti are plan to go on as usual . one unabash fan of golan wa isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu , who wish her well in a video messag befor her perform on thursday night . in hi statement , netanyahu said , `` eden , i want to wish you success , but you have alreadi succeed . you not onli face eurovis in a proud and impress way , but you success face a wave of antisemit while stand and repres the state of israel with respect . '' in ani case , golan will not be the onli isra perform in the final : jerusalem - born tali golerg , who is repres luxembourg , won a place after she perform her song , & ldquo ; fighter , & rdquo ; in the first semi - final on tuesday night . an isra who ha live all over the world , she ha been a profession singer for seven year alreadi , even though she is onli 23 . some survivor of the massacr at the supernova music festiv have use the phrase , & ldquo ; we will danc again , & rdquo ; to express hope for the futur , and golan show us on thursday night that we will sing again , too . the jerusalem post staff contribut to thi report .