onc in a while , new startl and excit discoveri filter through even in thi data - drench internet - acceler world . the classic music commun wa surpris and thrill around a year and a half or so ago when a long - lost score by felix mendelssohn and ignaz moschel , which came to light in 2009 after a hiatu of close to 200 year , wa restor to it former glori and unveil to the public . intern renown pianist tomer lev and hi multipiano ensembl are now proffer the work to local audienc , with the isra philharmon orchestra ( ipo ) in tow . the four - date seri kick off at the charl bronfman auditorium in tel aviv tonight , april 3 ( 7 p . m . ) , follow by two further concert there on april 4 and 6 ( 8 p . m . and 9 p . m . respect ) , close at the jerusalem theatr on april 7 ( 8 p . m . ) . the fantasi and variat on a theme by weber ( aka fantasia and variat ) ha a fascin subtext and will be featur in forthcom concert . the program also includ an intrigu and now highli poignant work from 2012 by isra compos ari levanon , who die on octob 31 at 91 , call land of four languag . the full lineup includ orawa by polish compos wojciech kilar , who die in 2013 , dvorak & rsquo ; s carniv overtur , and beethoven & rsquo ; s violin concerto in d major , with vadim gluzman as soloist . fantasia and variat had the perfect market springboard regard the perform artist , debut set , and the hit parad of the time . the origin ivori tickler were it compos mendelssohn and moschel , with whom mendelssohn studi for a while . lev say the ventur wa destin to get the ticket offic roll from the off . & ldquo ; the work is base on a theme by weber , & rdquo ; lev explain . the score in question wa ride high in the popular stake of the day . & ldquo ; it is quit a stori . in 1833 , mendelssohn wa enjoy the best stage of hi career . he wa a superstar in england . that wa the countri where he wa most admir . & rdquo ; that public profil led to an offer that wa too good to refus . & ldquo ; hi teacher , ignaz moschel , live in london . both were of german jewish origin and the most idol piano virtuosi in england and europ . they were the two great jewish virtuoso . & rdquo ; that wa also recogn in lofti societ circl . & ldquo ; they were invit to be the key perform in a chariti event under the aegi of the royal palac in london . it wa a high - brow chariti event , & rdquo ; lev note . the organ sought someth that would do justic to the occas and wow the audienc . they chose a proven product and ask the artist to run with it . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; they went for the two biggest music celebr . each perform part of a recit , but the event ' s highlight wa when they were ask to jointli prepar someth base on one of the hit number at that time : gypsi march , written by weber for a music theater product call preciosa . everyon wa mad about gypsi march . & rdquo ; back in the earli 19th centuri , classic compos and musician frequent allow themselv to stray from the composit straight and narrow . that suit mendelssohn and moschel down to the ground . & ldquo ; they were ask to improvis variat on thi theme , the gypsi march , & rdquo ; say lev . & ldquo ; they were both excel improvis and play like in a jam session ; you take a tune with a chord chart and improvis . & rdquo ; that come across in fantasia and variat . & ldquo ; you have one piano play someth elabor while the other play more in line with the chart , and then they switch . it wa an open approach . & rdquo ; it work well . & ldquo ; the event wa an amaz success , and they ask them to do it again , & rdquo ; lev remark , note that it wa not just a matter of repris the crowd - pleaser . '' they had more time to plan it for the second event . they were both so busi . they decid to turn the improvis into a written composit . they also ad an orchestra . & rdquo ; henc , the format for thi week & rsquo ; s tel aviv and jerusalem concert . not that mendelssohn and moschel were exactli scratch around for work at the time , but , presum , the respons to their effort must have had them rub their hand with anticip of thrill audienc elsewher . howev , as with all good yarn , there wa a dramat twist . & lsquo ; shortli after the second concert , the sheet music disappear , and it wa forgotten . & rdquo ; there wa more drama when mendelssohn die 14 year after the chariti event doublehead , at onli 38 . undet , hi partner in box offic success decid to make some hay while the sun still filter through befor the memori of the triumph linger . & ldquo ; moschel tri to restor the sheet music , & rdquo ; say lev . that , it transpir , wa easier said than done . & ldquo ; in fact , he came up with a differ composit . he didn & rsquo ; t realli manag to restor the origin work . & rdquo ; nevertheless , as they say in certain commerci quarter , you can regain your public profil if you hang around long enough . & ldquo ; suddenli , they discov the origin manuscript in archiv in saint petersburg , of all place , & rdquo ; lev chuckl . that prove to be a game changer . plenti of elbow greas had to be invest befor the work could becom a practic proposit for public perform . & nbsp ; that is precis what lev and hi multipiano counterpart & ndash ; berenika glixman , nimrod meiti - haftel , and lior lifshitz & ndash ; have done in the past year or so , in london and berlin and , a coupl of week ago , at carnegi hall in new york . sheet music wa languish in the archiv , and it wa deplor , just as the intern classic commun began gear up for the bicentenni of mendelssohn & rsquo ; s birth in 2009 . it wa a mess . & ldquo ; there were mani thing scribbl on the page and mani thing ad , and the paper wa in a bad state , & rdquo ; lev advis . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; they took expert from the state conservatori in moscow , with expert in ink and paper . eventu , they had a good copi of the origin work 1833 . & rdquo ; all & rsquo ; s well , and that end well . when lev got wind of the develop , he invit the chief restor of the sheet music to come to israel to give a talk about the whole process . much to the quartet leader & rsquo ; s surpris and pleasur , the lectur gave him the score after the lectur . lev wa determin to grace the work with commensur respect and reviv public interest . that led to the aforement concert worldwid , with the berlin date film and record , the record due out soon on the hyperion label , and a rendit of an intrigu composit by moschel . & ldquo ; we are one of the onli ensembl in the world to have a copi of the sheet music and to perform it , & rdquo ; lev note proudli . lev : thrill to play the origin work in israellev say he is thrill to be abl to play the origin work here . & ldquo ; the concert with the ipo close a love circl , after concert in london , berlin , carnegi hall in new york , tel aviv and jerusalem . you could see thi is a sort of resurrect of the work , bring it back to the surfac . the audienc have respond amazingli so far . we have had stand ovat everywher . & rdquo ; there is , sure , more raptur applaus due for the ensembl and ipo when they present fantasia and variat here . and levanon should rightli be well receiv , too . hi composit feed off the sound , rhythm , and sensibl of four cultur that the romanian - born compos consid to be core to the state of israel & mdash ; hebrew , yiddish , arab , and ladino . levanon wrote the piec for multipiano , which perform work on two piano for four , six , or eight hand , with or without an orchestra . lev believ the time is particularli ripe for the work to resound from the concert hall and , hope , chang mindset & ndash ; and possibl make some differ to the dismal state of region affair . & ldquo ; when we start tour intern with multipiano , we saw that peopl don & rsquo ; t know about israel & rsquo ; s multicultur . so we decid we want to perform someth that would reflect the pluralist face of thi countri . & rdquo ; levanon wa up for that . & ldquo ; he compos land of four languag . he chose four tradit tune in differ languag . hi messag wa that if the four can live togeth harmoni , in the score , mayb they will learn to live togeth in the real world . & rdquo ; the composit ha been well receiv thu far , but in the wake of octob 7 , lev feel the cross - cultur creation ha taken on ad signific . & ldquo ; after levanon & rsquo ; s pass , and after everyth israel ha been through in the past few month , the valu and messag of thi work are more relev than ever . & rdquo ; for ticket and more inform : http : // www . ipo . co . il / en /