hanan savyon and guy amir , the duo behind the tv seri asfur and the megahit isra movi maktub and forgiv , are back on the small screen with bro , netflix & rsquo ; s first origin hebrew - languag seri , which recycl the jerusalemit schlubbi bromanc shtick that ha work for them all these year . if you like their earlier work , you & rsquo ; ll have fun with thi , and if you didn & rsquo ; t , well , you & rsquo ; re probabl not their target audienc anyway . for onc , there are english subtitl avail , which will make it easier for mani english - speaker in israel to give it a tri . & nbsp ; it won & rsquo ; t shock anyon to hear that they play two friend who run a bar in the mahaneh yehuda market call pin - youni , with savyon as the hard - parti pini , whose wife can & rsquo ; t get pregnant ( which a doctor suggest is a problem caus by pini & rsquo ; s drug use ) , and amir as niso , hi bff and busi partner , whose girlfriend , rotem ( yael sztulman ) , work at the bar . the main plot is about how they head to krakow to support their favorit soccer team & ndash ; beitar jerusalem , as you might have guess & ndash ; as it compet against a polish team . subplot includ a possibl cancer diagnosi , niso & rsquo ; s problem with rotem , and a group of tel aviv hipster who plan to open a rival establish and then tri to buy their bar . & nbsp ; their poland adventur take up sever episod and allow them to delv a bit into the littl - known histori of how mizrahim were victim in the holocaust . the poland episod also featur all kind of action , includ when they get chase by a group of neo - nazi and even more dire predica . like a lot of isra comedi , the seri mix sentiment and melodramat storylin with the slapstick . & nbsp ; one thought that occur to me watch it is that while most beitar fan are just fan , there is a racist element to the team & rsquo ; s fan base that you wouldn & rsquo ; t guess at from it portray here . the seri doesn & rsquo ; t make it clear that the charact distanc themselv from the kind of fan who have actual unfurl & ldquo ; forev pure & rdquo ; banner at the team & rsquo ; s match & ndash ; & ldquo ; forev pure & rdquo ; is the titl of an excel documentari about these fan & ndash ; to show their opposit to the team hire arab player . these fan have resort to violenc to show their opposit to have arab and muslim of all nation join the team . & nbsp ; but the heart of the seri is pini and niso & rsquo ; s friendship , and savyon and amir , who have been work togeth for decad , realli project the close of longtim friend and , like so mani comic actor , rise to the occas when there is an emot moment . their self - deprec likabl lift thi seri abov it often formula script , and if you stick with it , it will be becaus you enjoy spend time in their compani . & nbsp ; what els is on isra tv ? it & rsquo ; s good news for fan of vintag american sitcom that ye ha just start a new channel call classic comedi , which is avail on channel 29 . it run around the clock , and it offer comedi seri from the & rsquo ; 70 to the & rsquo ; 90 . it featur all in the famili , which mani consid the greatest sitcom of all time , which wa about the unrepent racist archi bunker . thi seri wa creat by televis great norman lear , and wa more or less the first time that a network televis comedi dealt with polit issu for laugh , but with a seriou agenda . lear wa a liber , and while the pugnaci hero , bunker , charm some , hi convict were prove wrong in episod after episod , although the seri also made fun of hi liber son - in - law ( play by rob reiner , the son of carl reiner , who is now a movi director ) and hi daughter ( salli struther ) . other sitcom on the channel includ mad about you , with paul reiser and helen hunt ( who went on to win a best actress oscar for as good as it get ) , cheer ( consid one of the best ensembl cast of all time ) , happi day ( the fonz ! ) , who & rsquo ; s the boss ? and the love boat . if ye programm are read thi , i & rsquo ; d like to request that they add the mari tyler moor show and taxi , two seri creat by jame l . brook that i would be veri happi to see at 2 a . m . when i can & rsquo ; t sleep . one of the big issu in the hollywood writer strike wa the use of ai to write screenplay , becaus the hollywood scribe fear they would be replac . but when you watch a lot of the rom - com and light entertain on netflix and other platform these day , it & rsquo ; s hard to believ that they weren & rsquo ; t written by robot , and not especi well - program robot . that doesn & rsquo ; t mean you won & rsquo ; t enjoy aspect of them ; the cast and locat are alway great - look . but to say that there are no surpris would be an understat . & nbsp ; a case in point is the new spanish movi on netflix , love , divid . it & rsquo ; s about a nerdi but gorgeou app design who work out of hi apart , which share a paper - thin wall with the apart that a recent dump , awkward but gorgeou pianist move into . he ha a deadlin to get the app readi and must work all the time , while she is practic for a special audit . if you & rsquo ; ve seen a movi or two , you could easili write a script right now that would be almost ident to the actual film . look for someth a littl more interest , i found i & rsquo ; ll see you in my dream , a movi that recent join the netflix lineup and which star blyth danner ( who is probabl best known these day for be gwyneth paltrow & rsquo ; s mother , but who ha had a veri interest career of her own ) as carol , a lone widow who step back into the date pool after mani year alon . while it might sound like a typic rom - com , it & rsquo ; s much more thought and even a bit downbeat . carol , a retir singer and teacher and the mother of an adult daughter who live far away , wake up everi morn , water her plant , exercis , see her girlfriend ( a great group play by rhea perlman , mari kay place , and june squibb ) , and play golf , but she feel someth is miss in her life ; and after her belov dog die , she begin date . sam elliott , who play the wise old cowboy in the big lebowski , is her love interest , and hi charact is similarli adrift . but the stori isn & rsquo ; t all straight line and big laugh , end with a clinch . one element that set it apart is a storylin where she befriend her pool cleaner , a young man who aspir to write song and feel stuck , and to whom she can open up in a way she can & rsquo ; t with her old friend . the pool cleaner is play by martin starr , whom you may know as gilfoyl , the satan - worship programm in silicon valley . while i love him in that seri , i actual didn & rsquo ; t recogn him here , and without hi strang gilfoyl hairstyl , he is a handsom lead man type , with an edg . & nbsp ; while i watch thi movi , i start out envi the charact becaus they were live their live in a world that wa so peac , without war or terror or the thousand of other thing that make life in israel challeng . but by the end i realiz that , to quot a line from the norwegian movi 1001 gram , & ldquo ; life & rsquo ; s heaviest burden is have noth to carri . & rdquo ; much is come up soon in may , includ a number of movi and seri to mark holocaust remembr day , notabl the seri the tattooist of auschwitz , which star harvey keitel in an adapt of the book of the same name . there will be much more program devot to mark thi day , includ documentari , seri , and featur film , as well as movi devot to remembr day for the fallen of israel & rsquo ; s war and independ day , which will be fill with deeper sorrow thi year , sinc the loss of octob 7 and the subsequ war .