israel need a peac author to pursu and maintain relat with it arab neighbor and the palestinian , former isra negoti gilead sher told the knesset foreign affair and defens committe on tuesday . & ldquo ; thi author will handl onli peac , and peac - make and peac - preserv , & rdquo ; sher told the jerusalem post after the meet , ad that thi new bodi would have & ldquo ; one mission statement . & rdquo ; thi would be an independ author with a commission that would be appoint by the knesset , sher said . he explain that thi wa differ from other government bodi such as the foreign ministri , the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic or the nation secur council , which handl a myriad of task . & ldquo ; thi is a fresh new idea that is complet detach from polit of left and right , & rdquo ; said sher . & ldquo ; thi relat to the veri basic fundament of the establish of the state of israel with a declar of independ of 1948 , which expressli say that israel will seek peac and extend it arm toward it neighbor for peac and secur . & rdquo ; sher ha a long histori with peac process , have serv as an attorney and chief of staff for former prime minist ehud barak , as well as a negoti for both barak and former prime minist yitzhak rabin . israel need to move beyond the paradigm of deal with peac onli as a necessari pursuit when the opportun open and make it a perman part of it nation agenda , sher said . israel should & ldquo ; not be satisfi with short - time , ad - hoc administr whenev there is an opportun to do someth , & rdquo ; he said . dure past peac process , he note , there were temporari mechan that were establish and then dismantl . dure the 2007 annapoli process , there wa even & ldquo ; a peac administr , & rdquo ; but & ldquo ; it wa a veri short - term administr without ani continu of the collect memori and the data that wa process . & rdquo ; a peac author , sher said , would allow for a kind of continu that is not absent . & ldquo ; thi is a stabl perman bodi that would becom one of the most import bodi in the state of israel , & rdquo ; he said . sher spoke at a time when the peac process with the palestinian ha been frozen for almost eight year . it is also a time when israel ha advanc peac with it neighbor under the rubric of the abraham accord , establish tie with the unit arab emir , bahrain , morocco and sudan . sher said that the peac author would work to shore up those relat as well as israel & rsquo ; s peac treati with egypt and jordan . in addit , it would prepar for normal tie with addit arab countri . a senior fellow at the institut for nation secur studi , sher said thi plan wa hi initi , and that when he put it forward , he did not repres ani specif organ . he spoke dure a meet in which the fadc listen to propos on how to advanc isra - palestinian relat and heard summari of pend problem area . mk gabi laski ( meretz ) told the foreign affair and defens committe that she could not recal when such a forum had been conven . laski said the idea for an administr or a peac author could be put into place fairli quickli . it ha been a mistak to reli so heavili on a militari bodi to repres israel in it tie with the palestinian author . it would be import for a civilian bodi to exist that would upgrad israel & rsquo ; s tie with the pa , laski said .