the last week ha been an anatomi of a spiral brawl between prime minist benjamin netanyahu and us presid joe biden . first , there wa the & ldquo ; hot mic & rdquo ; moment last week in which biden , in an incid that mani thought wa script , wa heard tell politician that he want to have a & ldquo ; come to jesu meet & rdquo ; with netanyahu . that wa follow by biden & rsquo ; s attack on netanyahu on sunday , when dure an interview with msnbc he said the isra prime minist & ldquo ; is hurt israel more than help israel ... it is contrari to what israel stand for , and i think it & rsquo ; s a big mistak . & rdquo ; on monday a us intellig assess report specul that netanyahu could be overthrown . in speak about that report befor a senat committe cia director william burn said , & ldquo ; i worri that netanyahu & rsquo ; s conduct in the war threaten to undermin support for israel in the long term includ in the us . & rdquo ; a senior isra offici respond by accus the biden admir of attempt to overthrow netanyahu & rsquo ; s govern . on thursday , in a prolong speech befor the senat , it major leader chuck schumer ( d - ny ) call for new elect to replac netanyahu charg that he wa an obstacl to peac and argu that he and hi & ldquo ; extremist govern & rdquo ; can not remain in place onc the war wind down . he even appear to hint at condit militari aid , a sentiment onc express onli by politician on the left - wing flank of the democrat parti , such as senat berni sander ( d - vt ) . it wa a speech that vastli expand the narr to one that extend beyond netanyahu and biden , to includ the entir democrat parti . that schumer is the highest - rank jewish politician , a centrist within the parti , and an avid israel support , made the blow even harsher . isra outcri fall flatisra politician were quick to decri us interfer in the democraci of one of it closest alli , a tri and true refrain use for such moment . it fell someon flat , howev , in light of the impact israel & rsquo ; s polici are have both on antisemit in the us and the upcom us presidenti elect . one could see schumer & rsquo ; s speech within the context of us domest polit , as a sign of how nervou the democrat parti is about retain the white hous in novemb and the impact the gaza war could have on biden & rsquo ; s reelect chanc versu hi adversari , former us presid donald trump . one could even see it as the start of the democrat messag , now that trump and biden thi week have clinch enough support to becom their parti & rsquo ; s presumpt nomine . oppon of the gaza war in america often refer to it as & ldquo ; netanyahu & rsquo ; s war , & rdquo ; scapego him as the caus of the conflict rather than hama . netanyahu , who wa alreadi at odd with biden and the democrat parti over hi judici polici befor the war , had alreadi been view as a person - non - grata in washington . now it appear that instead of turn israel into a pariah , they are turn him into one . onc netanyahu & rsquo ; s biggest problem wa that he didn & rsquo ; t have a washington invit , now it is that the democrat are be blunt about want to overthrow him . democrat will explain to their voter that they support israel , not it govern and that if need , they will not hesit to show israel some tough love . it & rsquo ; s a messag that of cours play well for republican who have histor embrac netanyahu , known for hi strong relationship with trump . senat tom cotton ( r - ar ) call schumer & rsquo ; s comment & ldquo ; inappropri & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; offens . & rdquo ; republican who were expect to campaign on strong support for israel , now have extra fodder for their argument . those who worri about the interplay between the gaza war and the us elect , now have seen the open act of what will like be an increasingli contenti democrat - republican rift over israel . the gaza war and the ensu isra - us diplomat battl over it will like make or break the polit career of politician on both side of the ocean and both side of the aisl in washington . but when the dust ha settl and the elect season is over , the overal isra - american relationship will have taken a hit . those tie are strongest when israel remain a bipartisan issu . thi week & rsquo ; s drama is a warn shot across the bow , of how a raucou and fate elect could creat a jerusalem - washington crisi .