as intern actor debat the legitimaci of israel & rsquo ; s oper in gaza , the war on israel & rsquo ; s northern front rage on . death from the israel - hezbollah conflict are continu to rise , and over 100 , 000 isra are still evacu from their home in northern israel , lead some to question the efficaci of the un peacekeep forc meant to maintain secur in southern lebanon . after the isra armi finish a militari oper against the palestin liber organ ( plo ) in lebanon in 1978 , the un establish a temporari peacekeep forc known as the unit nation interim forc in lebanon ( unifil ) . the bodi wa meant to restor intern peac and secur and to assist lebanon & rsquo ; s govern and armi in restor control of the border with israel . israel & rsquo ; s 1978 invas push the plo north of the litani river , about 18 mile from the border , in order to limit attack against israel . despit the establish of unifil as a peacekeep forc , israel return to lebanon in 1982 . in 2006 , anoth conflict broke out between israel and hezbollah , a lebanes shiit group with tie to iran . after 34 day of fight between hezbollah and israel in 2006 , the un broker a ceas - fire . under the agreement , un secur council resolut 1701 , israel and hezbollah agre to ceas hostil , and unifil wa task with ensur that no arm group other than itself and the lebanes armi oper south of the litani river . today , unifil compris more than 10 , 000 soldier from 49 nation . in addit to monitor the border , the organ also provid humanitarian assist to civilian affect by the exchang of fire in southern lebanon . unifil ' s role pre - octob 7 & ldquo ; befor oct . 7 , we were abl to guarante the overal stabil of the southern border for year , and thi wa clearli a success , & rdquo ; andrea tenenti , spokesperson for the unifil mission , told the media line . & ldquo ; we play an activ role . in fact , we have help the lebanes armi , start from 2008 , to regain control of the southern part of the countri . & rdquo ; despit unifil & rsquo ; s success , hezbollah ha grown stronger in southern lebanon sinc 2006 , especi in the town and villag along the 75 - mile - long demarc line , lead some to critic unifil as ineffect . sinc oct . 7 , as constant clash between hezbollah and israel have plagu southern lebanon and northern israel , those critic have grown louder . & ldquo ; the unifil mission start with veri weak point and end up be more a ceas - fire resolut than a peacekeep one , & rdquo ; hanin ghaddar , a senior fellow at the washington institut , told the media line . she note that the forc mostli report violat . & ldquo ; they do not possess the tool and permiss from the un to confisc weapon or even arrest those affili with & rdquo ; hezbollah , she said . tenenti character unifil as & ldquo ; the onli one who can mediat properli & rdquo ; amid the rise tension , note that the group had arrang meet between the isra and lebanes armi . unifil doe not onli monitor the conflict between hezbollah and israel & mdash ; at time , it find itself caught up in that contact . & nbsp ; among other incid , a car bomb kill six unifil personnel in 2007 , and in octob , two mortar shell of undetermin origin hit a unifil base , injur one peacekeep . & ldquo ; hezbollah target unifil becaus they do not want anoth actor in the south , & rdquo ; ghaddar explain . & ldquo ; it is never an accid when unifil personnel is target becaus the milit group aim to send a messag both to the countri that serv in these forc and to the un : do not interfer with our activ in the southern part of the countri . & rdquo ; avraham levin , a speaker at the northern israel - base alma research and educ center , told the media line that hezbollah ha more control over unifil than unifil doe over hezbollah . & ldquo ; there are area where unifil personnel can not go to , and if they end up by mistak in hezbollah & rsquo ; s territori , they are attack on the spot , their vehicl are burnt , and sometim they are even shot down , & rdquo ; he said . levin also said that hezbollah use unifil base for it militari purpos . & ldquo ; both in 2006 and in further oper that israel carri against hezbollah , the milit use unifil compound as shield for their oper in order to stop israel & rsquo ; s counterattack against a un base , & rdquo ; he said . one of the rocket launch at israel by hezbollah in decemb origin just 20 yard from a unifil compound . levin said that the lebanes armi & rsquo ; s lack of action to rein in hezbollah relat to the shia sympathi of mani of the soldier as well as the interest in avoid anoth lebanes civil war . describ both unifil and the lebanes armi as ineffect deterr to hezbollah , he said that israel may have to invad lebanon onc again . & ldquo ; we can not risk anoth oct . 7 in the northern part of israel sinc [ hezbollah secretari - gener hassan ] nasrallah publicli claim hi goal to invad the galile . even if thi scenario is not pleasant for both side , we may need to stop hezbollah by enter lebanon as we did in the past , & rdquo ; he said . in the event that a full - scale war between israel and hezbollah doe break out , unifil may be a target , levin said . & ldquo ; mayb thi may push to reconsid it mission in the first place , & rdquo ; he specul .