head in a north - easterli direct from the arc de triomph down avenu hoch to number 37 , one reach le royal monceau hotel ; at it entranc , a red portico and statu head that cast their gaze over everyon who pass through . the hotel , onc a beehiv of activ for diplomat , intellectu , artist , celebr , and even the command of the alli arm forc dure world war ii , in 1946 host one of the more curiou chanc meet between two polit luminari of the 20th centuri . fresh from black saturday & ndash ; the arrest of 3 , 000 jew , includ most of the zionist execut leadership across palestin & ndash ; and the seal of jewish agenc build on june 28 , david ben - gurion , then - leader of the jewish agenc , sat in hi hotel room ponder hi organ & rsquo ; s next move . & nbsp ; pari , in the earli post - war year , wa the european center of zionist activ . while in the citi , ben - gurion wa help to coordin the westward migrat of jew who had surviv the holocaust in eastern europ , jew he had hope would be interest in emigr to palestin to help found a new jewish state . & nbsp ; stay on the floor abov ben - gurion at le royal monceau wa a & nbsp ; skinni gentleman with the ellipt eye distinct to nativ of indochina , hi hairlin reced , and a thin , wispi goate rest on hi chin . to hi famili , grow up , he wa known as nguyễn sinh cung , but by 1946 , he wa the prime minist of the newli - found democrat republ of vietnam ( north vietnam ) and known to the rest of the world as ho chi minh . that summer , ho chi minh wa in pari for follow - up talk surround vietnames independ from the french . although captur by the japanes dure wwii , french indochina had long been a coloni jewel in the french empir & rsquo ; s crown with import natur and strateg resourc , it promin locat close to china and other trade rout . ben - gurion relat to former maariv correspond shmuel segev , who would write a book on vietnam , that each day for two week , ho chi minh would come down to hi room or he would climb a flight of stair to the vietnames leader & rsquo ; s quarter , and the two would talk . dure one convers , ben - gurion share insight into hi ongo problem , prompt ho chi minh to suggest the establish of a jewish govern in north vietnam . & ldquo ; he gave the impress of be a nice man , & rdquo ; ben - gurion would later recal of ho chi minh . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; dure one of those convers , he propos that i immedi establish a jewish govern - in - exil on vietnames territori . i thank him and said that when the time came , i would consid hi offer . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; despit share a roof , and becom & ldquo ; veri friendli & rdquo ; over the week as the former isra prime minist state , & ldquo ; for obviou reason , [ the offer ] wa unaccept . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; i am certain that we shall be abl to establish a jewish govern in palestin , & rdquo ; ben - gurion reportedli said , ad that if he wrote to ho chi minh , the latter might invit him to visit north vietnam . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; he didn & rsquo ; t use communist slogan , & rdquo ; ben - gurion said , ad that ho chi minh desir to give the impress that he wa a nationalist leader fight onli for hi peopl & rsquo ; s independ . & nbsp ; ben - gurion also relat how he had been abl to judg how the vietnames negoti were proceed with the french by the length of the red carpet at ho chi minh & rsquo ; s door . & ldquo ; at first , the red carpet extend from the street to hochi minh & rsquo ; s door , & rdquo ; the jewish leader recal . & ldquo ; in stage , it wa remov from the pavement outsid , the lobbi , and the staircas . & ldquo ; when the carpet outsid hi door wa remov , i knew the talk had fail , and sure enough , a few hour later , he came to my room to say goodby . he wa tire , worn out , and disappoint , and he told me noth remain but to fight . & rdquo ; a few month later , the first indochina war began between vietnames forc and franc . two road to independencedespit the close relationship develop over onli a coupl of week one pari summer , diplomat relat between vietnam and israel took decad to come to fruition . on friday , may 14 , 1948 , david ben - gurion stood in tel aviv and formal declar the independ state of israel . the next day , the arab armi of egypt , syria , jordan , and iraq invad , along with a corp of volunt from saudi arabia , lebanon , and yemen . the burgeon jewish state prevail , although it would face mani more obstacl down the road for it freedom . the fight for vietnames independ would take a much darker and longer path . while vietnam wa formal partit into south and north vietnam in 1954 , at the end of the first indochina war , with israel support the geneva agreement , diplomat relat between the two nation never materi . & nbsp ; communist north vietnam maintain a strong relationship with the socialist power of the day , the soviet union and maoist china , while also cultiv tie with the arab nation . israel , on the other side of the metaphor global iron curtain , provid technic aid to south vietnam without establish formal diplomat channel . in june 1967 , as israel launch a pre - emptiv strike against the armi of egypt , syria , and jordan , north vietnam & rsquo ; s presid ho chi minh wrote in a person wire to egyptian presid gamal abdel nasser , & ldquo ; we are highli indign at the action of isra reactionari agent of the unit state and british imperialist . they are doom to ignomini defeat . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; by 1967 , the north vietnames and their communist armi , the viet cong , were busi themselv fight a guerilla war against the south vietnames and their us alli . by 1969 , over half a million us troop were station in the countri , and the vietnam war would claim the live of almost 60 , 000 us servicemen and women . ho chi minh would die in septemb 1969 , never live to see the unit , communist vietnam that he had dream of and fought so long for . in 1975 , two year after the offici end of us militari involv , south vietnam & rsquo ; s capit , saigon , fell to the viet cong and wa renam ho chi minh citi . & nbsp ; ben - gurion & rsquo ; s death would follow that of hi revolutionari friend a few year later , in decemb 1973 . after hi final year follow hi retir from polit live in a modest home in kibbutz sde boker in the negev desert , he wa buri there alongsid hi wife , paula . israel - vietnam relationsisrael and vietnam & rsquo ; s path would cross rel infrequ over the follow decad , with one particular infam encount take place . & nbsp ; on june 10 , 1977 , a remark rescu oper unfold when the isra freighter ship , the yuvali , bound for taiwan , spot a group of passeng in need . thi group , consist of approxim 66 vietnames refuge , mark the begin of a seri of arriv in israel between 1977 and 1979 of over 300 peopl flee communist vietnam . isra prime minist at the time , menachem begin , drew a poignant parallel , liken the plight of these refuge to that of holocaust survivor . & nbsp ; begin famous remark , & ldquo ; we have never forgotten the boat with 900 jew , st . loui , have left germani in the last week befor the second world war ... travel from harbor to harbor , from countri to countri , cri out for refug . they were refus ... therefor , it wa natur ... to give those peopl a haven in the land of israel . & rdquo ; inspir by thi etho of compass and solidar , begin direct isra diplomat to extend a lifelin to the vietnames refuge , offer them asylum in israel . in a poignant moment captur by an associ press broadcast on octob 26 , 1979 , a grate refuge express profound appreci to the govern of israel and to begin , acknowledg their role in open their homeland at a time when other nation hesit to offer assist in the face of communist oppress . vietnam and israel would final establish offici diplomat relat on juli 12 , 1993 , follow by israel open it resid embassi in the capit hanoi in decemb 1993ben - gurion & rsquo ; s recollect of hi pari meet with the tall , skinni vietnames man , spotlight the converg of two revolutionari movement in one place and offer a uniqu perspect on one of the most import & ndash ; and instrument & ndash ; period in the 20th centuri . & nbsp ; in the post - wwii world , with nation border be redrawn , either along class line or ethnic line , two dedic men had found themselv in a parisian hotel room , drawn togeth by histori and the common bond of their endur fight for their peopl & rsquo ; s independ .