the head of islam jihad denounc arab attempt to normal relat with israel on friday , as the milit group stage demonstr in the palestinian territori and neighbor state amid isra effort to make peac with saudi arabia . '' those who rush toward normal with the zionist project must know , and they do know , that thi is their acknowledg that palestin is not our , and that jerusalem with it mosqu is not our , '' ziad al - nakhala , the leader of the pij terror group , said in the video address . the remark were broadcast to demonstr in gaza , the west bank , lebanon and syria , who mark the 36th anniversari of the found of the movement . arm and mask milit attend the gaza ralli dress in militari style uniform . organ place two giant flag of israel and the unit state for particip to step on as they arriv at the gather at an open - air field . the palestinian islam jihad , which seek the destruct of israel , ha fought repeat battl with the isra militari in recent year and ha alway reject ani polit compromis . it is base in gaza , a strip of territori control by rival milit group hama , and also ha foreign headquart in beirut and damascu . us presid joe biden ha encourag saudi arabia and israel to seek an agreement that would build on earlier accord between israel and the unit arab emir and bahrain , as well as morocco and sudan . ani deal is seen as some way off , with the statu of the palestinian among the key issu to be decid . pij launch attack on palestinian authority - nakhala also condemn the palestinian author , the bodi born out of the oslo accord 30 year ago which exercis limit govern in the & nbsp ; west bank , as it secur forc clash briefli with islam jihad milit at a ralli in the town of tulkarm . '' israel kill us with american weapon , and the so - call secur servic chase us and arrest us upon american decis too , '' he said , demand the pa releas all palestinian milit it held in detent . hour after hi comment , unidentifi gunmen in the northern west bank citi of jenin open fire on the local headquart of the palestinian administr . al - nakhala said islam jihad remain oppos not onli to normal relat with israel , but also to the entir peac process that start with the camp david accord between israel and egypt in 1978 . '' we affirm that our resist continu , and the islam jihad movement , born from the spirit of islam , still persever in it path . it ha not compromis and will not surrend to delus , '' he said .