two hama terrorist , a father and son , confess to rape innoc isra civilian befor kill them on octob 7 , the daili mail report thursday . jamal hussein ahmad radi , a 47 - year - old palestinian from gaza , wa describ as shameless , and hi 18 - year - old son , abdallah , wa call evil in the report . the report focus on a video in which the two terrorist describ murder civilian in their home , kidnap victim , and rape women befor murder them . the report describ how the two terrorist confess to invad israel and infiltr kibbutz nir oz , where & ldquo ; in each hous where [ they ] found someon , [ they ] either kill them or kidnap them . & rdquo ; the father describ how he had rape a cri woman while hold her at gunpoint , and that after 15 minut , he left her but did not know what happen to her afterward . accord to the son & rsquo ; s confess , howev , hi father did not provid the investig with the entir truth . the son said hi father had kill the woman after she wa rape by multipl peopl , includ himself , the report said . & ldquo ; my father rape her , then i did , and then my cousin did , and then we left , & rdquo ; he wa quot as say . & ldquo ; but my father kill the woman after we finish rape her . & rdquo ; anoth woman wa rape by the two terrorist , as well as two more peopl who were rape by the father , the report said , say he had confess to have & ldquo ; rape anoth girl as well , & rdquo ; and that he & ldquo ; broke into five hous . & rdquo ; father and son are both in custodyaccord to the idf , both the father and son are in custodi in israel and await trial . the testimoni arriv two month after a report concern sexual - violenc incid on octob 7 deliv by pramila patten , special repres of the un secretari - gener , the report said . patten & rsquo ; s report wa base on interview with multipl octob 7 victim and survivor , as well as investig the bodi of victim at differ morgu . & ldquo ; it wa a catalog of the most extrem and inhuman form of kill , tortur , and other horror , & rdquo ; the daili mail quot patten as say . some women who were at the supernova music festiv on octob 7 were also victim of hama & rsquo ; s use of sexual violenc as a weapon , the report said . the report end with an idf spokesperson be quot as say in a video : & ldquo ; over the past month , we & rsquo ; ve seen countless evid of the brutal violenc use by hama on octob 7 , includ harrow act of gender - base and sexual violenc . these confess further prove that ani attempt to deni the horror of octob 7 , and discredit the testimoni of wit , survivor , and freed hostag , is part of a campaign to delegitim israel and to promot the justif of terror . & rdquo ;