knesset member hanoch milwidski ( likud ) wa interview on monday on 103fm and said that the haredi draft law as current written won ' t be abl to pass a vote in the knesset . `` i do not believ that the govern ' s current [ version of the law ] as publish is the law that will ultim pass . i didn ' t write it . moreov , no one consult me befor they wrote it , '' he clarifi . milwidski argu that he would oppos the law in it current form : `` in my opinion , thi draft as it is current present is not someth that can pass in the knesset . '' he oppos rais the exempt age : `` no , in my opinion , the exempt age should be 21 . '' who oppos the haredi draft law ? he ad on the subject : `` the issu is not whether i will vote for it . as a likud knesset member , like me , there are mani who do not feel comfort with thi draft ... therefor , i think there is no real possibl that thi draft in thi version will come to a vote and pass in the knesset . the one i would expect to hear a clear statement from on these issu is the defens minist ; he may know more than anyon els about the need [ of the armi ] . '' in addit , prime minist benjamin netanyahu is not expect to give up on the attempt to pass the conscript law in it current form , as report thi morn on kan reshet bet . netanyahu also sent a messag to hi colleagu in the likud who are uncomfort with the issu , state that without pass the law , the govern will not be abl to continu for much longer . nation uniti leader benni gantz address the controversi surround the new haredi draft law , threaten that if the law pass , he and hi parti member will not be abl to continu be part of the govern . '' the peopl will not toler it , the knesset will not be abl to vote in favor of it , and my associ and i can not be part of thi emerg govern if thi law pass , '' he said in hi announc . '' pass such a law would be cross a red line dure normal time , and dure the war , it ' s like fli a black flag over it , '' he ad , `` we will not be abl to look in the eye of fighter within our border and beyond them , and ask them to extend their servic . ''