with a rig set to start pump ga from israel & rsquo ; s karish ga field within week , threat by hezbollah leader hassan nasrallah will like be put to the test , as will the new head of the idf & rsquo ; s northern command , maj .- gen . uri gordin . accord to matthew levitt , director of the jeanett and eli reinhard program on counterterror and intellig at the washington institut for near east polici , hezbollah want to & ldquo ; scratch their resist itch . & rdquo ; while hezbollah can attempt to do someth , it doe not want to drag the region into a full - blown war . lebanon is in such a disastr state that it understand the need for a maritim border deal , said levitt , a former counter - terror offici . but , he ad , the group is also will to put lebanes citizen at risk and drag israel into a war just to use it as a scapegoat . hezbollah , lebanon ' s massiv terrorist armyund nasrallah , hezbollah ha grown into what the idf describ as a & ldquo ; terror armi & rdquo ; with an estim 150 , 000 rocket and munit that can hit anywher in the countri . it is believ that in the next war , hezbollah will tri to fire close to 4 , 000 rocket per day to start , follow by some 2 , 000 per day until the last day of the conflict . in comparison , dure oper break dawn in august , islam jihad fire a total of just more than 1 , 000 rocket from gaza in three day . in a recent interview with walla , gordin said the idf will priorit the northern part of the state , sinc 50 % of hezbollah & rsquo ; s arsen is aim at citi 15 km . from the border with lebanon , includ nahariya , acr , safe and kiryat shmona . anoth 40 % of hezbollah & rsquo ; s missil can reach haifa and surround area . onli 5 % can reach target further to the south . hezbollah ha not given up on work on it precis munit project . it is believ that the major of the alleg isra airstrik in syria as part of it & ldquo ; war between the war & rdquo ; campaign have been target compon for the project . the terrorist group also ha sophist drone that can be use for reconnaiss mission or carri munit to attack target . though former israel air forc command maj .- gen ( re . ) amikam norkin ha said the iaf lost it aerial superior over lebanon , levitt argu otherwis . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s complic and israel ha to take more precaut , but israel can still go where it need to , when it need to , to get what it need . & rdquo ; matthew levitt & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s complic , and israel ha to take more precaut , but israel can still go where it need to , when it need to , to get what it need , & rdquo ; he said . the group also ha signific battlefield experi after their engag on the side of bashar assad dure the syrian civil war . hezbollah & rsquo ; s elit radwan forc are a forc to be fear and are spread across southern lebanon wait for the order to attack israel . & ldquo ; you have to take the radwan forc serious , & rdquo ; said levitt . in addit to the on - the - job train and weapon ( includ american - made ar - 15 ) , the radwan forc & ldquo ; are disciplin , & rdquo ; levitt note . and while they face challeng such as the loss of senior oper , mani of the radwan troop & ldquo ; onli know fight in syria . & rdquo ; while tension have risen significantli between israel and hezbollah , the intellig commun doe not think that nasrallah would drag the entir region into war over the ga rig . the extract of the ga and the potenti sign of a deal between israel and lebanon , mediat by the unit state , also come as the west believ there will not be a nuclear deal sign with iran . iran alreadi send $ 800 million annual to hezbollah , and the lack of a deal would not stop the islam republ from continu to fund them . & ldquo ; iran priorit them , and withdraw from the jcpoa did noth . they can afford it , & rdquo ; said levitt . gordin , who took over the northern command from maj .- gen . amir baram on sunday even , know that some sort of confront with hezbollah will happen under hi watch & ndash ; be it a limit round of violenc like what happen with gaza , or a full - blown devast war between the two side . hezbollah took mani risk under baram & rsquo ; s tenur , includ fire an anti - tank missil toward an empti militari ambul in 2019 and fire 19 rocket toward empti field last summer . the group also launch drone toward the karish ga field in earli juli . none of those event led to an outbreak of war , but one miscalcul and the stori could be total differ . israel ha warn that ani infrastructur in lebanon that serv hezbollah is a militari target . the militari ha said that it alreadi ha thousand of target at the readi in it target bank . with lebanon alreadi amid an econom collaps , a war with israel could lead the countri to utter devast . is nasrallah readi to risk that ?