the world court of justic unanim order israel , accus by south africa of genocid in gaza , to take all necessari and effect action to ensur basic food suppli to the enclav ' s palestinian popul and halt the spread of famin . judg at the world court , also known as the intern court of justic , said the palestinian in gaza face worsen condit and famin and starvat were spread . '' the court observ that palestinian in gaza are no longer face onli a risk of famin ... but that famin is set in , '' the judg said in their order . south africa request the new measur as part of it ongo case that accus israel of state - led genocid in gaza . there wa no immedi comment from israel ' s foreign ministri on the rule . israel ha said it wa make effort to expand access for humanitarian aid to gaza overland , through airdrop and by ship to the enclav ' s mediterranean coast . spokesperson matthew miller said on thursday afternoon that the state depart will review the icj order befor react . '' but as a gener proposit , of cours , increas humanitarian assist to gaza is someth that we support and someth that we have urg israel to help facilit , '' miller said . howev , miller wa clear in say that the us doe not believ a genocid ha taken place or that it ' s an appropri or construct term to use in thi instanc . in januari , the intern court of justic ( icj ) , also known as the world court , order israel to refrain from ani act that could fall under the genocid convent and to ensur it troop commit no genocid act against palestinian after south africa accus israel of state - led genocid in gaza . ireland said on wednesday it would interven in south africa ' s genocid case against israel . foreign minist micheal martin announc the move . martin did not say what form the intervent would take or outlin ani argument or propos ireland plan to put forward . israel and it western alli describ the alleg as baseless . a final rule in south africa ' s icj case in the hagu could take year . israel foreign ministri spokesperson lior haiat post to x , say `` as ha been repeatedli affirm , israel is commit to intern law , includ with respect to allow and facilit the transfer of essenti humanitarian aid to the civilian popul in the gaza strip . '' south africa ha fail yet again in it cynic attempt to exploit the icj in order to undermin israel ' s inher right and oblig to defend it citizen from the ongo hama attack and to secur the releas of hostag still held in gaza in brutal captiv . as ha & hellip ; pic . twitter . com / erof1jha8 & mdash ; lior haiat 🇮🇱🎗️ ( @ liorhaiat ) march 28 , 2024un call for ceasefir and account amid gaza crisisun under - secretari - gener and special advisor on the prevent of genocid , alic wairimu nderitu , acknowledg on thursday the monday secur council resolut that call for an immedi ceasefir and the releas of the hostag . nderitu call for the full implement of the resolut . '' thi war , togeth with it attend suffer , need to end , and need to end now , said nderitu in a press statement . `` those respons for hinder humanitarian access and for hate speech , dehuman , and incit languag must be held to account , '' she ad . '' mutual pain need to be acknowledg , and such a desir can becom a realiti when there is willing not onli to hear the other side but also to conced one anoth equal respect for fundament right , '' she ad , call on all parti to demonstr leadership . '' the land that hold histor and religi connect for jew across the world , the spiritu center of the muslim faith and the cradl of christian , can becom a clarion for peac not onli in the immedi region but in the entir world , '' she said . the foreign ministri said on thursday that franc had declar it intent to resum fund unrwa under certain condit . the ministri in pari said franc intend to provid over 30 million euro ( $ 32 . 41 million us dollar ) to unrwa thi year to support it oper amid the ongo war in gaza . '' we will make our contribut while ensur that the condit are met for unrwa to fulfil it mission in a spirit devoid of incit to hatr and violenc , '' foreign ministri spokesman christoph lemoin told journalist . kuwait ha hand it annual us dollar contribut of $ 2 million to unrwa , reuter report on thursday , base on the kuwaiti state news agenc kuna . unrwa said on tuesday it had suffici fund to run it oper until the end of may after mani donor paus their fund over isra accus that some staff took part in hama ' octob 7 massacr . & nbsp ;