israel & rsquo ; s knesset on tuesday began a marathon debat to approv a controversi updat version of the 2024 nation budget . the nation budget in effect is a packag of bill that are pass togeth . the first is the actual budget of each govern ministri for the year 2024 ; the second set the govern & rsquo ; s spend ceil and budget deficit ; and the rest are sever amend to exist bill to adapt them to the new budget , such as a bill to appli a special tax on israel & rsquo ; s larg bank dure 2024 . knesset financ committe chairman mk mosh gafni ( unit torah judaism ) block vote on sever tax provis aim at increas the 2024 nation incom , such as a new tax on israel & rsquo ; s central bank , and these have yet to arriv on the knesset floor . fund for haredi schoolsgafni did thi to protest what he argu wa insuffici fund for the haredi school system . the nation budget is like to pass regardless , with the remain provis expect to pass later on in an addit bill when the disput is resolv . the provis are expect to add up to approxim ni six billion in nation incom between the year 2024 - 2027 . the disput center around gafni & rsquo ; s demand to includ the haredi semi - privat and privat school system in a reform that pass in 2008 call & ldquo ; ofek hadash & rdquo ; ( hebrew for & ldquo ; new horizon & rdquo ; ) , which offer an increas in teacher & rsquo ; s salari and addit benefit that depend on extracurricular work hour and other paramet . gafni insist that the haredi teacher deserv to be paid the same as non - haredi teacher , but the reform also requir educ ministri oversight and other compon that he is unwil to accept . gafni allud to thi when present the budget . & ldquo ; everyon should know that an injustic is be commit here , and i will continu to fight so that they [ haredi teacher ] receiv equal pay for equal work , & rdquo ; gafni said . fellow utj mk yisrael eichler , chairman of the knesset labor and welfar committe , who spoke after gafni , blame an & ldquo ; aggress media campaign & rdquo ; to bar haredi teacher from receiv equal pay , which eichler said wa & ldquo ; theft , exploit , and injustic . & rdquo ; the debat began at 11 : 00 a . m . and is schedul to run for 25 hour straight , until wednesday at noon , after which vote will commenc . the budget is expect to pass into law on wednesday afternoon or even .