some see the world in one or two dimens and other in three . when financ minist bezalel smotrich , who also ha a portfolio within the defens ministri , respond to the palestinian terrorist attack in which two jew were murder in huwara in the northern west bank by call for use tank and helicopt against the palestinian , he certainli wa not think three - dimension . nor wa nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir , who pick a fight with the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) , which recommend unseal the resid of a terrorist who kill three jew earlier in februari . these view are indic of narrow think . lesson from the second intifada and the knife intifada show that substanti increas idf physic presenc in west bank area , especi palestinian area , were part of the necessari mix of ingredi for restor calm and secur . but that presenc rare involv tank and helicopt & ndash ; blunt instrument for open battlefield or for target larg , concentr enemi posit . those posit do not exist in the west bank , which doe not have the massiv volum of rocket , other destruct weapon and well - structur hama militia that exist in gaza . whi won ' t tank , helicopt in the west bank secur quiet with the palestinian ? the palestinian author , while it might not control all area and might be turn a blind eye to terrorist element , is activ avoid conflict with the idf . non - pa terrorist element do not pose anywher near the same magnitud of threat as hama . neither do they present a use larg target for tank or helicopt . militarili , the tactic that work befor , and would like work now if it need to be unleash , would involv huge number of soldier go door to door , with intellig support from drone . likewis , despit ben - gvir & rsquo ; s attack on the shin bet , the secur agenc ha been a big support of hous demolit to deter futur terror . howev , part of the shin bet & rsquo ; s rational is that palestinian know in their heart of heart that the agenc is focus on famili who hold some joint respons for the terror of their famili member . in contrast , the shin bet found that the ramot terrorist from earlier thi month wa psycholog unstabl and that the famili did not assist him in ani way and might even have tri to temper hi violent lean . a hous demolit in that case could just creat more terrorist , even accord to the shin bet , becaus not a singl palestinian would see it as legitim . but the second intifada wa also brought under control by the eventu complet of the west bank secur barrier to limit infiltr . one problem in a dimens where use forc can not solv everyth & ndash ; and tank and helicopt are useless and impract to polic a long border & ndash ; is that , as idf sourc told the jerusalem post , complet those portion of the barrier where palestinian are still sneak through into sovereign israel could take anoth 18 month . and thi doesn & rsquo ; t even address east jerusalem , where there is not ani initi be entertain that could handl the secur situat . arab from east jerusalem travel freeli in israel . even presum that nearli all of them aren & rsquo ; t look to act against israel , anyon with violent intent is unrestrain . tank and helicopt are even less relev there . sunday & rsquo ; s terrorist attack occur in an overlap palestinian area , where palestinian and isra mix , the least secur type of locat . the knife intifada wa partial put down by isra secur forc use social media and drone surveil to predict and prevent terrorist attack by & ldquo ; lone wolf & rdquo ; attack befor they happen . yet , mani say anoth ingredi to end the second intifada wa israel & rsquo ; s announc withdraw from gaza . in contrast , there is current no diplomat dimens ( or & ldquo ; carrot & rdquo ; ) on the tabl from israel to follow a new oper defens shield ( or & ldquo ; stick & rdquo ; ) , such as then - prime minist ariel sharon use . in parallel to demolish more hous , take away terrorist & rsquo ; citizenship and call for capit punish for terrorist , the current govern is also in negoti with the pa , jordan and egypt to tri to calm the broader situat befor it transform into anoth intifada . part of the & ldquo ; deal & rdquo ; that seem to have emerg includ freez unilater action on both side for some month . for israel , thi refer to new settlement and outpost , wherea for the palestinian , it might have refer to legal move against israel in the un system . but as those effort continu , element of the coalit oppos ani dialogu whatsoev with ani palestinian , even though the shin bet believ dialogu is critic to restor secur cooper with the pa . in past year , some intellig offici told the post that the pa had help israel stop 20 % or more of terrorist attack against israel & ndash ; not insignific number . and tank and helicopt in the west bank would not make thing quieter with hama in gaza . to date , the current govern ha fail to convinc hama to fulli disconnect itself from issu with palestinian in other conflict area . all of thi come down to the idea that use forc , and more of it , may absolut be part of the equat to end the almost yearlong up - and - down current wave of violenc . but there will also like need to be a & ldquo ; carrot & rdquo ; in there somewher , whether econom , diplomat or both . might the new deal be enough in thi area , or is it inadequ to escap the current quagmir ? other ingredi could be the unfinish secur barrier in the west bank , which will take time , come up with a uniqu secur solut to east jerusalem secur issu and figur out a way to restor deterr with hama in gaza . thi would mean the current govern will need to tri some new and creativ idea on multipl play field instead of onli doubl down with populist slogan in one dimens . there are mani idea , short of a messian peac vision , that can help restor calm , and the latest deal might help with that . but tank and helicopt are either a tini part or a nonexist part of the solut .