palestinian author presid mahmoud abba is enrag becaus egypt , qatar and other parti chose to hold direct contact on way of prevent further escal with israel in the aftermath of the recent tension in jerusalem and the west bank , a senior offici with the rule fatah faction said . the offici , who wa not identifi by name , told the london - base pan - arab media outlet al - arabi al - jade that abba & ldquo ; did not hide hi anger & rdquo ; over be sidelin dure the mediat effort with hi rival in hama . & ldquo ; these effort show that presid abba is no longer the onli parti that arab turn to when talk about the escal in al - aqsa mosqu and the west bank , & rdquo ; the offici ad . on sunday , abba abruptli call off an emerg meet of the palestinian leadership that wa suppos to discuss the rise tension with israel . the meet wa schedul to take place in ramallah on sunday even . palestinian offici said that the pa leadership wa call to discuss the implement of a resolut by the palestinian central council ( pcc ) to termin all sign agreement with israel , halt secur coordin and suspend plo recognit of israel until the isra govern recogn a palestinian state on the pre - 1967 line , with east jerusalem as it capit . the resolut wa announc by the pcc in 2018 and again earlier thi year dure a meet in ramallah . sinc the begin of the tension , hama leader ismail haniyeh , who is base in doha , qatar , ha been hold a seri of contact with egypt , qatar , the unit nation and other parti on way of avert an all - out confront with israel . haniyeh wa in touch with senior egyptian intellig offici , qatari ruler sheikh tamim bin hamad al - thani and hi foreign minist , and the un special coordin for the middl east peac process tor wennesland . the hama leader also contact arab leagu secretari - gener ahm aboul gheit and oman & rsquo ; s foreign minist sayyid badr albusaidi . on saturday , report surfac in a number of arab media outlet concern a truce agreement that ha been reach between the gaza - base terrorist group and israel . the report creat the impress that abba and the pa were no longer seen as relev and influenti player . in addit , the report impli that the hama leadership wa the onli address for restor calm . follow the news about the truce deal , the pa leadership issu a statement in which it said that abba and the palestinian leadership & ldquo ; continu their action at the intern level , includ send messag and make contact with a number of world leader and intern organ . & rdquo ; accord to the statement , & ldquo ; these contact aim to brief world leader and intern organ on the danger situat that the palestinian territori are go through , includ incurs into citi , camp and villag , especi what is happen in jerusalem . & rdquo ; the statement wa clearli intend to show that abba and the pa leadership were not sit on the fenc while sever countri and parti were negoti with hama . a pa offici insist on monday that the ramallah - base leadership wa & ldquo ; directli involv & rdquo ; in all the contact with intern parti over the past few day . & ldquo ; the egyptian and qatari know that the palestinian leadership is the onli address , & rdquo ; the offici told the jerusalem post . & ldquo ; ani attempt to sidelin presid abba and the legitim leadership of the palestinian peopl won & rsquo ; t succeed . & rdquo ; the offici point out that abba and jordan & rsquo ; s king abdullah discuss the latest develop in the palestinian arena dure a phone convers on monday . abba also held similar discuss with russian presid vladimir putin , the emir of qatar and turkish presid recep tayyip erdogan , he said . but a fatah offici told the hama - affili shehab news websit that abba & rsquo ; s insist on maintain tight and exclus control of the decis - make process ha creat a crisi in the pa . the offici claim that abba wa onli consult with hi confid , senior plo and fatah offici hussein al - sheikh , as well as the command of the pa secur forc . the unnam offici also said that abba wa outrag with the arab and foreign mediat for ignor him and talk directli to hama . abba & rsquo ; s decis to call off the plan meet of the palestinian leadership rais eyebrow and drew sharp critic from mani palestinian . it wa unclear , howev , if the decis wa the result of abba & rsquo ; s report frustrat with the mediat for allegedli sidelin him .