& nbsp ; former prime minist benjamin netanyahu oversaw some of the most virul instanc of diplomat warfar against israel sinc the & ldquo ; zionism equal racism & rdquo ; battl at the unit nation in the last centuri . & nbsp ; the isra - palestinian and the larger isra - arab conflict have long fuel attempt to turn the jewish state into a pariah nation . & nbsp ; the stake were rais , howev , becaus of the 2012 vote in the un gener assembl that upgrad the statu of the palestinian to that of a non - member state . the palestinian author & rsquo ; s newfound statu as a de facto un state gave it a more expans toolbox by which to pursu israel and forc it to execut a civilian and militari withdraw to the pre - 1967 line . & nbsp ; at issu , howev , wa not just israel & rsquo ; s hold on the west bank , east jerusalem and the golan height . the initi also took aim at israel & rsquo ; s jewish ident , jewish tie to it holi site , and it right to self - defens . & nbsp ; netanyahu offset some of that impact by link some of the attack with antisemit and anti - israel bia . he wa more effect than past premier in enlist american support and in secur a circl of european , african and asian alli . issu of palestinian incit and support for terror also gain promin dure hi tenur . & nbsp ; here is a list of 12 victori and loss dure hi 12 - year prime ministeri reign that began in march 2009 and end thi week . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; loss & nbsp ; 1 ) icc open war crime probe against israel & nbsp ; isra were not in danger of war crime suit at the icc when netanyahu enter offic . & nbsp ; the access of the pa to the rome statut in 2015 chang that , and allow the pa to request a war crime probe into isra action in the west bank , gaza and east jerusalem . & nbsp ; the icc rule thi year that it had jurisdict to hear war crime case connect with that territori , and ha open a probe . while it is examin the possibl of war crime case against isra and palestinian , it is presum that the focu will be on potenti isra war crime . & nbsp ; should the icc conclud that a probe could be conduct , then individu isra , most like it leader , could find themselv face war crime charg . & nbsp ; 2 ) unhrc creat perman probe against israel & nbsp ; the unhrc dure netanyahu & rsquo ; s tenur launch at least six fact - find mission against israel in an attempt to prove it had commit and continu to commit war crime and seriou human right violat . & nbsp ; the most infam wa the initi probe head by and name for south african jurist richard goldston . & nbsp ; the goldston mission and two other explor potenti isra war crime dure the three gaza war . one of the fact - find mission probe alleg human right abus connect to west bank settlement . the mission on the hama - led march of return led to the creation of a databas of idf soldier who potenti execut war crime against the palestinian particip . & nbsp ; thi year the unhrc creat a perman probe into potenti isra human right abus , both within sovereign israel and in the west bank and gaza , start from april 13 , 2021 . israel is the onli countri under perman investig for war crime . & nbsp ; separ it publish a blacklist of compani do busi with isra entiti locat over the pre - 1967 line . it & rsquo ; s the onli countri against whom such a blacklist ha been publish . & nbsp ; in 2018 it also began issu an annual call for an arm embargo against israel . & nbsp ; 3 ) unesco regist tomb of the patriarch to palestin & nbsp ; unesco becam the first un bodi to recogn palestin as a state , in 2011 . pa membership at unesco allow the registr of three site onto it world heritag list : the church of the nativ , the battir terrac and the tomb of the patriarch . the registr focus primarili on the period when the tomb wa under mamluk control in 1250 and through the ottoman empir period , rather than on the ancient and biblic period when it wa in jewish hand . & nbsp ; israel withdrew from unesco in 2018 to protest it anti - israel bia , after halt it annual payment to the organ in 2011 and lose it vote right two year later . & nbsp ; 4 ) eu product label & nbsp ; the european union publish guidelin in 2015 on how to place consum label on product from east jerusalem , the west bank and gaza , to clarifi that they were not produc in israel . & nbsp ; the guidelin were voluntari . four year later , howev , the eu court of justic rule that all isra product produc over the pre - 1967 line must be mark with such consum label . & nbsp ; 5 ) un launch apartheid investig & nbsp ; & nbsp ; the un committe on the elimin of racial discrimin thi year cede to a request by the palestinian author to investig whether israel had commit act of apartheid . it would mark the first such un investig into such a charg base on the definit set out in the rome statut . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; victori & nbsp ; 1 ) abraham accord put a damper on bd & nbsp ; the abraham accord , which normal tie between israel and four arab countri , took some of the wind out of the sail of the boycott , divest and sanction movement . the willing of arab countri to do busi with israel made it more difficult for bd to argu that other countri should boycott it . & nbsp ; 2 ) icc mavi marmara war crime probe nix & nbsp ; the intern crimin court chief prosecutor reject a request to probe israel for war crime relat to the idf raid in 2010 against the gaza - bound flotilla ship mavi marmara . the idf forcibl board the ship as it attempt to break israel & rsquo ; s maritim blockad of gaza . dure the raid , 10 turkish activist aboard the ship were kill . & nbsp ; 3 ) onli one unsc anti - israel resolut pass & nbsp ; the un secur council condemn israel onli onc dure netanyahu & rsquo ; s tenur , which is a record in the institut & rsquo ; s treatment of israel . it wa the direct result of netanyahu & rsquo ; s abil to secur opposit to such resolut from former us presid barack obama and donald trump . the onli except wa in 2016 , in the final week of the obama administr , when the unsc approv resolut 2334 that condemn isra settlement activ and reject isra sovereignti over ani part of east jerusalem , includ the western wall . & nbsp ; 4 ) partial victori on the jerusalem resolut & nbsp ; the pa push for the un to ignor jewish tie to the templ mount by referenc that site and the western wall sole by their muslim name of al - haram al - sharif and the buraq plaza . with the support of arab state , it began to insert muslim - onli refer in resolut on jerusalem pass by the unesco execut board at each of it bi - annual meet . those text also disavow jewish sovereignti over jerusalem . & nbsp ; the jerusalem resolut were neutral at unesco through a compromis in which the controversi element of the text were place in an annex . the pa ha been more success with a similar drive at the gener assembl , where it ha an automat major of support . & nbsp ; 5 ) agenda item 7 boycott & nbsp ; netanyahu made no headway in sway the un human right council to rescind it mandat that the 47 - member bodi discuss alleg isra human right abus against the palestinian at everi one of it session under agenda item 7 . & nbsp ; but it success sway european countri that the exist of such a mandat against onli one countri wa an exampl of anti - israel bia . as a result , most of the european countri boycott agenda item 7 session , which take place three time a year . & nbsp ; 6 ) spotlight on pay - for - slay & nbsp ; netanyahu made signific inroad in persuad european and western countri , particularli the unit state , to take the palestinian author to task for provid monthli stipend to palestinian terrorist and their rel . israel ha dub the practic & ldquo ; pay - for - slay . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; the us took a strong stand on the issu , with congress pass the taylor forc act that prohibit direct econom assist to the pa until it halt the payment . & nbsp ; 7 ) condemn of unrwa incit & nbsp ; netanyahu also succeed in gener awar of unrwa & rsquo ; s failur to ensur that it textbook did not includ incit materi against jew and israel . & nbsp ; the biden administr ha promis to link futur fund to unrwa to it adher to a zero - toler polici for materi that promot hate and antisemit against jew and israel . & nbsp ; the eu parliament thi year also condemn ani use by unrwa of such materi .