a group of 40 west bank palestinian civilian made histori on monday when they flew to cypru from ramon airport near eilat , which they had been ban from use until now . physician and pharmacist and their famili from bethlehem and hebron were among member of a group who were allow to board a regularli schedul arkia flight to larnaca . & ldquo ; until today , flight for palestinian in a uniqu framework , and in particular from ramon airport , were just a dream , & rdquo ; arkia isra airlin ceo oz berlowitz said . & ldquo ; and inde , the dream ha been fulfil . & rdquo ; '' the dream ha been fulfil . '' arkia ceo oz berlowitzmost palestinian who go abroad fli out of amman , enter jordan via the allenbi bridg cross . so can palestinian go to ben - gurion airport ? & nbsp ; some 10 , 000 palestinian , includ senior pa offici who hold isra - issu vip card , have been permit to travel through ben - gurion airport . amir assi , a strateg consult for arkia who help organ the trip , said west bank palestinian current can access ramon airport onli through special group option , such as thi one . the airport is not open to individu west bank palestinian . the airport author had initi plan a pilot program of two weekli flight to turkey for west bank palestinian , one through antalya and anoth through istanbul . the plan would have been execut through two turkish airlin compani , but there were difficulti organ flight time and avail aircraft . on sunday , the airport author said the plan had been delay . who is against the decis ? & nbsp ; the palestinian author on monday renew it call for palestinian not to use ramon airport . the owner of travel and tourist agenc in jordan have protest the isra decis to open ramon airport to palestinian passeng , argu that it would caus huge financi damag to their compani and the jordanian economi . the open of ramon airport to palestinian passeng drew mix feel from palestinian . some express support for the move , say it would facilit their travel abroad , while other dismiss the idea for polit reason , dub it an act of & ldquo ; normal & rdquo ; with israel . & ldquo ; we have alreadi state and appeal to the resid not to use the [ ramon ] airport becaus thi is an isra interest , and it & rsquo ; s harm to palestinian sovereignti , & rdquo ; pa transport ministri spokesman musa rahhal wa quot as say by the palestinian al - watan voic media outlet . '' thi is an isra interest and it & rsquo ; s harm to palestinian sovereignti . '' musa rahhal , the spokesman of the pa ministri of transportth pa continu to demand that israel allow palestinian to travel through the airport locat north of jerusalem and the airport in the southern gaza strip , he said . jerusalem intern airport in atarot , north of jerusalem ( also known as the kalandiya airport ) , ha been close to civilian traffic sinc the second intifada in 2000 . the airport in the gaza strip , which wa inaugur in 1998 and name yasser arafat intern airport , also ceas oper in 2000 . in 2001 , israel bomb the radar station and control tower . the follow year , isra bulldoz cut the runway , render the airport inoper . rahhal said the pa wa also demand that palestinian be permit to establish a new airport in the west bank that would be under exclus palestinian control .