the palestinian author accus israel of carri out & ldquo ; extra - judici execut , & rdquo ; and call on the unit nation to provid protect for the palestinian . hama and palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) , meanwhil , call on palestinian to step up the & ldquo ; resist & rdquo ; against israel , in respons to the kill of a gunman near jenin and a woman who tri to stab polic offic in the old citi of jerusalem earli thursday . in the villag of burkin , near jenin , soldier shot and kill 22 - year - old alaa zyoud , a member of pij & rsquo ; s al - qud brigad . hour later , polic offic shot and kill israa khuzaimia , a mother of three from kabatiya , also near jenin . the woman wa shot while she tri to carri out a stab attack near the templ mount in jerusalem . the plo accus israel of kill the two & ldquo ; in cold blood , & rdquo ; and call on the intern commun to assum it respons toward & ldquo ; the enforc of intern and humanitarian law in the occupi territori . & rdquo ; the palestinian foreign ministri condemn & ldquo ; in the strongest term the two heinou field execut commit by the occup forc and it polic in both jerusalem and burkin . & rdquo ; accord to the ministri , the kill are the direct result of prime minist naftali bennett & rsquo ; s evas of the palestinian issu dure hi speech at the un gener assembl earlier thi week . the kill are also & ldquo ; an extens of a long seri of crimin field execut order issu by the polit and militari echelon in the occupi state to it soldier to facilit the process of shoot at the palestinian , & rdquo ; the ministri said in a statement . the ministri also condemn settler assault on palestinian in the masafar yatta area near hebron , claim they were carri out & ldquo ; under the supervis and protect & rdquo ; of the idf . & ldquo ; the ministri hold the isra govern head by naftali bennett fulli and directli respons for these crime and their seriou repercuss on the situat in the entir region , & rdquo ; the statement read , urg the un to provid intern protect for the palestinian . it also call on the un high commission for human right to establish an investig committe & ldquo ; for isra crime and violat . & rdquo ; the palestinian prison club reveal that the idf arrest 54 palestinian in the jenin area sinc the begin of septemb , most of them after the escap of the six secur prison from gilboa prison earlier in the month . the prison club accus israel of impos a polici of & ldquo ; collect punish & rdquo ; against palestinian in the jenin area , includ the famili of the six escap inmat . the six were recaptur by israel polic . pij mourn the death of it member , alaa zyoud , and pledg to pursu the fight against israel . it said the increas violenc in the west bank wa & ldquo ; an authent express of the will of the palestinian peopl who do not accept surrend , and whose resolv is not frustrat by conspiraci . & rdquo ; respond to thursday & rsquo ; s kill , hama said that & ldquo ; the arm resist and the comprehens confront with the occup is capabl of stop it aggress and expel it settler from our occupi land . & rdquo ;