gaza - base terrorist control a number of social media account claim to be isra women , in an attempt to catfish isra and expos them to harm , the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) approv for public on monday afternoon . the palestinian terrorist use photo of real isra women for the profil , includ sever account detect by shin bet that wa use the name `` maria david `` or `` maria shimon . '' the account ' owner imperson an isra fit trainer on both facebook and instagram , in an attempt to make contact with isra civilian or idf male soldier . & nbsp ; these profil were later remov by the social media platform follow the intervent of the cyber unit in israel ' s state attorney ' s offic . in a statement , the shin bet issu a warn to isra that terrorist group are use social media to `` lure in innoc civilian in a manner that pose a threat to their person secur . '' the isra militari ha thwart sever similar attempt by hama to honeypot troop in recent year . previou hama honeypot attempttwo year ago , the phone of hundr of soldier , includ combat soldier , were compromis . the idf thwart the attempt by the gaza - base terror group in an oper they call & ldquo ; rebound . & rdquo ; in april , an extens fake profil network on facebook oper by hama wa uncov by secur forc . the network , reportedli oper by hama for sever month , wa use for surveil and obtain sensit inform on the target , accord to cybereason , the us - base and isra - own compani that uncov hama ' oper , said . the fake account mainli target young isra who serv in the idf and other secur establish or isra who work at emerg servic . anoth hama honeypot attempt wa discov and foil in juli , when seemingli innoc profil oper by the palestinian terror organ approach isra on telegram and variou social network that dealt with soccer and date and tri to implant spywar under the guis of a puzzl app . the app would allow the attack , hama , to gain almost complet control over the soldier & rsquo ; s devic . it would then be use to gather critic inform and even track the soldier . the network wa identifi after a soldier report a suspici convers that he had with someon on telegram .