86 holocaust survivor who were evacu from their home from both southern and northern israel follow the outbreak of the israel - hama war have pass away , the welfar and social affair ministri announc on thursday ahead of holocaust remembr day next week . accord to the ministri , 52 holocaust survivor die from the citi of ashkelon , 12 survivor from sderot , and 11 survivor from other settlement in the south . in addit , 11 holocaust survivor die from the evacu northern settlement of shomrat , metula , kibbutz dan , shlomi , and kibbutz yir & rsquo ; on . the data show that some of the 238 holocaust survivor who were evacu to hotel return to their home or move to other place . in the citi of ashkelon , 122 holocaust survivor left hotel , while in sderot , 33 holocaust survivor left . most of the holocaust survivor who were evacu from the north , on the other hand , remain in the evacu center , like much of the other resid . from kiryat shmona , for exampl , onli two holocaust survivor left the hotel , as well as two from metula and seven from shlomi . about 2 , 500 holocaust survivor experienc the difficult event of octob 7 . about 2 , 000 holocaust survivor were forc to abandon their home and evacu to a safe area as a result . in the meantim , the ministri note an increas in the number of holocaust survivor who are assist by welfar servic . accord to the data , thi appli to 42 % of holocaust survivor in israel . as of 2024 , the offic provid servic to approxim 48 , 610 survivor , compar to 45 , 300 last year . 22 , 893 of the holocaust survivor receiv servic from variou framework of the welfar and social affair ministri , mainli through support commun . 1 , 710 survivor receiv assist through the social payment system , receiv mainli materi and financi assist . 5 , 110 receiv servic from the friendship fund in cooper with the welfar and social affair ministri . in addit , more than 1 , 000 holocaust survivor are assist by a remot welfar program and a connect program - program to allevi loneli and strengthen intergener tie through two - way digit commun technolog system for remot contact and physic meet , which aim to improv the qualiti of life of holocaust survivor in the commun in term of reduc loneli and a sens of belong , promot a healthi lifestyl , and promot digit literaci . isra govern and ministri seek to allevi difficulti for survivorsth welfar and social affair ministri ad design standard for the care and assist of holocaust survivor in local author , alongsid the expans of commun servic to all senior citizen in the state of israel and variou program . welfar and social affair minist ya & rsquo ; akov margi said : `` thi year , more than ever , we have an oblig as a ministri , as a societi , and as a commun to embrac holocaust survivor , mani of whom experienc the event of the terribl massacr on octob 7 and brought back to them difficult memori of the terribl holocaust . '' '' at a time when the state of israel is fight for it right to exist and when terribl antisemit event and demonstr take place everi day in citi and campus around the world , the gener of holocaust survivor are our light and moral compass and the beacon of faith in our righteous . the peopl , mani of whom have experienc the horror of both time , are testimoni to the rise of israel and the strength and resili of the jewish peopl , '' he conclud . & nbsp ; director gener of the welfar and social affair ministri , yinon aharoni , said : `` aid and support for holocaust survivor is at the heart of the ministri ' s activ , and we are constantli work to diversifi and expand the program and servic for thi popul . the goal is to person reach everi survivor , and to lay out befor them all the right and servic they deserv . our debt as a countri and citizen to the survivor of the holocaust is enorm , and we must work everi day to make sure that they will live a good life with good health and a support and wide social network as possibl , and thi so that they will not lack anyth . ''