masa israel journey , a leader in global jewish and israel - focus program , is set to solemnli commemor remembr day with a ceremoni at yad l & rsquo ; shiryon in latrun , israel on sunday . the ceremoni is expect to bring togeth over 5 , 000 attende and countless viewer worldwid , make the event the largest english - languag ceremoni of it kind , dedic to honor the fallen soldier of israel and victim of terror . thi year & rsquo ; s observ of remembr day hold particular signific amidst profound grief and shock follow the octob 7 massacr , ongo conflict , and a concern surg in global antisemit . under the reson theme & ldquo ; we are one , & rdquo ; the ceremoni aim to serv as a power remind of the mourn of jew worldwid , and the resili need to rebuild and nurtur hope . stori of valor and sacrific were set to be share dure the ceremoni , highlight fallen masa alumni such staff - sergeant omer balva , an american - born idf soldier in the nahal brigad , who wa kill on the northern border from hezbollah fire , and sergeant rose lubin , a border polic offic from atlanta , georgia , who wa kill in a stab attack in east jerusalem . rose fought and defend kibbutz sa ' ad on octob 7 . omer ' s father , eyal , will read the kaddish prayer on behalf of the bereav famili . & nbsp ; famili member of nathan leor hai , origin from franc , who wa tragic kill on octob 7 , have been invit to light a commemor torch dure the ceremoni , that will also see the particip of mani bereav famili and repres from the isra govern and knesset . the ceremoni is also set to pay tribut to captain deni krokhmalov - veksler , dr . daniel levi , luci , maia and rina dee z `` l , and the victim of the terror attack in the amia , jewish center in argentina . addit , the program includ a mass prayer for the safe return of the hostag , includ andrei kozlov , a masa alum from russia who remain captiv in gaza after be kidnap at the nova music festiv . among the distinguish guest that are set to be present at the event are govern repres such as minist of strateg affair , ron dermer , and cabinet secretari of the govern of israel , yossi fuch , alongsid promin jewish leader like chairman of the jewish agenc , major gener ( re . ) doron almog , act ceo of masa israel journey , yael sahar rubinstein , senior vp of global oper & amp ; director gener of jfna israel , rebecca caspi and ceo and director gener of the jewish agenc for israel , amira ahronoviz , alongsid masa fellow and alumni . the ceremoni will be broadcast on the jerusalem post websit . & ldquo ; we are one peopl , wherev we are , & rdquo ; emphas yael sahar rubinstein . & ldquo ; our remembr day is essenti to israel and the jewish peopl , & rdquo ; she ad . & ldquo ; thi ceremoni is for us to focu on the hero , cherish the world they left behind , and tri to be worthi of their sacrific . may their memori be a bless & rdquo ; . major gener ( re . ) doron almog ad , & ldquo ; we will rememb the fallen of israel ' s battl with respect , pain , long , and gratitud . & rdquo ; masa israel journey , found in 2004 by the jewish agenc and the govern of israel , ha provid over 200 , 000 young peopl from more than 60 countri with immers , long - term educ experi in isra societi , cultur , polit , and histori . & nbsp ;