an 80 - year - old palestinian - american who die in idf custodi two week ago most like suffer a heart attack caus by the stress he experienc dure hi detain , jiljilya mayor fuad qattum said sunday . palestinian offici and rel said the bodi of omar abdalmaje as & rsquo ; ad wa found in the palestinian town of jiljilya , near ramallah , in the earli hour of januari 12 with a plastic zip tie around one wrist . the biden administr ha sought & ldquo ; clarif & rdquo ; from israel about as & rsquo ; ad & rsquo ; s death , us state depart spokesman ned price said last week . & ldquo ; we are still wait for the autopsi report , & rdquo ; qattum said . & ldquo ; today i talk to the prosecutor , and he told me that it take time to prepar such report . it & rsquo ; s like he die from a heart attack as a result of the stress he wa in . but we want to wait for the offici report to see what caus the death . & rdquo ; as & rsquo ; ad wa detain while soldier carri out an overnight oper in the villag , the idf said . he wa aliv when the soldier releas him , and the militari polic ha open a probe into the matter , it ad . & ldquo ; the militari polic crimin investig divis is review the incid , at the end of which the find will be transfer to the militari gener advoc corp , & rdquo ; the idf said in a statement at the time . the militari polic ha launch an investig into the incid , but it is unlik that charg will be brought against the soldier and offic who particip in the oper , ynet report sunday . the soldier were from the netzah yehuda battalion , which is part of the kfir brigad . three soldier and two offic were question by polic under warn , the report said . the soldier said they had detain as & rsquo ; ad sinc he wa drive in a car that appear suspici , and they want to rule out that he wa carri arm . they detain as & rsquo ; ad and move him to a nearbi abandon home to be question . as & rsquo ; ad resist and claim he wa not a terrorist , ynet report . the soldier allegedli then forc move him into the abandon home , tie hi hand and cover hi mouth . he then appear & ldquo ; woozi , & rdquo ; accord to the soldier , and they believ he had fallen asleep . they did not call for medic assist and eventu left the home after unti as & rsquo ; ad , the report said . as & rsquo ; ad wa a former milwauke , wisconsin , resid who had live in the unit state for decad and return to the west bank 10 year ago , accord to hi brother . as & rsquo ; ad & rsquo ; s famili delay the funer until thursday to allow a postmortem . islam abu zaher , a local doctor who said he had tri to resuscit as & rsquo ; ad but found no puls , said there were no obviou sign of injuri and that the caus of death wa unclear .