the continu realiti that 90 % of adult haredi ( ultra - orthodox ) male are exempt from nation servic ha no moral , halach , or secur justif . thi wa true befor octob 7 and ha becom a critic issu sinc . have form part of the debat dure the period of legal reform befor the war , it is now a burn public issu . there are mani peopl respons for the fact that the haredi commun ha been exempt for the 76 year sinc the creation of the state of israel , start with david ben - gurion and includ pretti much everi govern sinc . but in the veri real - world crisi in which israel find itself , the issu ha crystal due to the huge sacrific made by conscript and reserv soldier sinc octob 7 and the armi & rsquo ; s need for more combat forc . with the immedi and long - term requir for battl - train soldier go up , the haredi leadership is doubl down on it rhetor . current , the onli thing stand between real chang in govern polici and the unten statu quo is the polit need of the prime minist , back by the religi zionist parti in the govern . it is time for the moral mass on the polit and religi right to call their leader out and demand a chang of cours . the fact that ani chang will take time to have an impact onli increas the urgenc for action . the countri need more soldier , in particular combat soldier . in order to achiev thi , the armi is demand that conscript soldier extend their servic and that those in reserv be call upon for extend period of servic for the forese futur . there is a limit number of popul that can provid addit pool for recruit , name , femal soldier ( whose number in combat role is on the rise ) and haredi men . the govern is in a bind . public opinion is now strongli and emot against ani extens of the blanket exempt for over 60 , 000 haredi yeshiva student , and on the other hand , the govern is polit beholden to the haredi parti , which as yet remain firm in their resist . the law allow for the haredi exempt actual expir in june 2023 , and now there are sever case befor the suprem court call for two measur as a result . one is to forc the defens ministri & rsquo ; s hand and start call up haredi men , and the second is to halt ani financi support for the yeshivot , with student now legal requir to enlist . both outcom are polit causu belli for the haredi parti . rais the age of exemptionin an attempt to stave off these sanction , the govern is mull a decis that will , among other thing , increas the age of exempt to 34 . thi mean that ani haredi not perform nation servic will not be legal allow to work until they are 34 . current , the age is 26 . thi will turn the clock back to 2010 . dr . gilad malach of the israel democraci institut is an expert on govern polici on conscript and haredim . he note that , in contrast to what is now be claim by the govern , not onli will thi not increas the number of haredim join the idf but it may caus the opposit . accord to malach , all the data show just the opposit . & ldquo ; histori and experi have shown us that it will also have a neg impact on the qualiti and quantiti of the haredi particip in the employ market . the later haredim seek train or employ , the less like they will be abl to train for highli skill work , & rdquo ; he say . altern , reduc the age of exempt caus more haredim to seek employ at a younger age , with the abil to skill up in order to exploit the opportun . instead of rais the age , malach and all the expert would prefer that the govern reduc it . yoav gradu , director - gener of the budget depart in israel & rsquo ; s ministri of financ , issu a letter to the defens minist on sunday , follow the public of the propos govern decis . report in the press stress that the decis wa be driven without the normal profession input from relev govern ministri , which onli increas the sens that the decis is pure polit , without ani real prospect of a posit impact on either increas particip in the armi or the economi . in the letter , he is quit specif : & ldquo ; from an econom point of view , the condit connect the non - conscript of men and their non - integr into the labor market led , as mention , to the creation of employ pattern that produc long - term damag to the entir economi . & rdquo ; shake reflect on decad of failurein a stun and unusu candid moment from an isra politician , former minist of justic ayelet shake , who wa close involv in the conscript law pass in 2014 , admit that all her hope for the law and the process it wa meant to creat have fail . & ldquo ; at the time we pass the law , the annual haredi cohort of boy number 8 , 000 , and 1 , 200 were conscript . after 10 year , we didn & rsquo ; t reach ( our target of ) 6 , 000 . inde , the cohort ha grown to 12 , 000 , and the number of conscript is 1 , 800 , & rdquo ; she told a recent confer at tel aviv univers . in the meantim , the armi & rsquo ; s need have grown dramat . & nbsp ; no magic bulletther are no easi fix to thi entrench problem . nobodi expect or believ that mass of haredim will join the idf immedi , no matter what polici is employ by the govern . howev , the need to shift cours is now . at the veri least , the govern ha to begin the process . for thi to happen , one of two thing will have to occur . either the likud and the religi zionist parti will have to forc the issu with the haredi parti or there will have to be elect with the ball drop into the lap of the next govern . urgenc demand that thi happen under the auspic of the current govern . polit determin that thi is an unlik outcom . for the first to happen , netanyahu and smotrich will have to switch cours , the risk be that the haredi parti will bolt the coalit and the govern will fall . on the other hand , gantz , eisenkot , and perhap defens minist gallant can forc their hand by either demand a differ polici or deliv an ultimatum to leav the govern . of cours , elect will delay the process . one way or anoth , there will soon be irresist public pressur for chang . thi will have to includ reduc govern budget support yeshiva for haredim who do not serv and increas budget for haredi institut and program that encourag nation servic , whether militari or civilian . the govern must support school teach core studi and social respons and reduc budget to school that are not prepar their student to make a full contribut to isra societi . & nbsp ; nobodi want to see haredim stop be loyal to their religi ident , but most isra are in no mood to see the statu quo extend . the writer , a found partner of goldrock capit , is the founder of the institut for jewish and zionist research . he is a former chair of gesher , world bnei akiva , and the coalit for haredi employ .