the palestinian author hope the us administr will fulfil it promis to the palestinian ahead of presid joe biden & rsquo ; s visit to the region next month , a pa offici said monday . the promis includ reopen the us consul in jerusalem , which wa close by the trump administr in 2018 , and remov the plo from the us foreign terrorist organ list , the offici said . the us state depart deleg that visit ramallah over the past few day promis to relay the palestinian demand to the white hous , he said . the us deleg , which wa head by assist secretari of state barbara leaf and her deputi , hadi amr , did not carri ani propos for reviv the stall isra - palestinian peac process , the offici ad . instead , the talk with pa presid mahmoud abba , plo secretari - gener hussein al - sheikh and gener intellig servic director maje faraj focus on way of strengthen palestinian - us relat and provid financi aid to the palestinian , he said . pa prime minist mohammad shtayyeh play down the signific of ani us measur if they are not accompani by a & ldquo ; polit horizon & rdquo ; for resolv the palestinian issu . the biden administr ha thu far fulfil onli one of it promis to the palestinian & ndash ; the resumpt of financi aid to the unit nation relief and work agenc for palestin refuge , he told the pa & rsquo ; s palestin tv . dure the meet with abba on saturday , the us offici discuss the us - palestinian relationship , us assist to the palestinian , deepen bilater tie and how palestinian and isra deserv equal measur of freedom , secur and prosper , accord to the us state depart . abba told the us offici the pa leadership wa in the process of take measur to confront the isra & ldquo ; escal & rdquo ; in light of the inabl of the intern commun to compel israel to compli with the resolut of intern legitimaci and to & ldquo ; stop it crimin practic and it measur of ethnic cleans and racial discrimin , & rdquo ; the pa & rsquo ; s offici wafa news agenc report . abba did not say what measur the pa wa consid to take . in the past , he had threaten to suspend all tie with israel . abba also stress the need to remov the plo from the us foreign terrorist organ list and reopen the us consul in jerusalem and the plo offic in washington . us deleg meetingth us deleg held anoth meet with sheikh and faraj on sunday even as part of the prepar for biden & rsquo ; s visit to the region . the side discuss the latest develop in the palestinian territori , includ isra & ldquo ; escal and settler terror and their daili assault against the aqsa mosqu , & rdquo ; a refer to visit by jew to the templ mount . sheikh also stress the need to reopen the us consul in jerusalem and remov the plo from the us foreign terrorist organ list . sheikh said he talk about the econom aspect and the need to resum aid to the pa , as well as unilater measur that undermin the two - state solut and peac prospect . & ldquo ; we need secur , stabil , an end to the occup of our land , and the establish of an independ palestinian state on the 1967 border . & rdquo ; hussein al - sheikh & ldquo ; we need secur , stabil , an end to the occup of our land and the establish of an independ palestinian state on the 1967 border , & rdquo ; sheikh said , stress the need to adher to the agreement sign between the plo and israel .