the settler riot that swept huwara on sunday are a `` declar of war `` and cross all red line , warn hama polit bureau offici suhai al - hindi on tuesday . '' the result of the aqaba summit are more kill , blood , and destruct for our palestinian peopl , and what nablu wit wa a joint attack , as the occup soldier sponsor settler to kill the palestinian person and burn the palestinian hous and palestinian entiti , '' said hindi to the palestinian news outlet al - watan voic . '' we , on our part as palestinian , can not in ani way accept thi equat , and we can not rais the white flag or accept that the enemi harm the palestinian peopl . '' suhai al - hindi `` we , on our part as palestinian , can not in ani way accept thi equat , and we can not rais the white flag or accept that the enemi harm the palestinian peopl , '' ad hindi . `` we are requir to confront thi conspiraci , kill and arson , with all our might , and the occup know onli the languag of forc , not the languag of dialogu , agreement and meet . '' hindi addit point to riot that have taken place in recent day along the gaza border , say `` the messag of the rebelli youth in the eastern gaza strip is veri clear , that when the palestinian peopl suffer , the settler here on the gaza border must suffer . '' the statement came as the qatari envoy to the gaza strip , moham al - emadi , suddenli cancel on tuesday morn a visit he had plan to gaza for tuesday even . idf investig upsurg in violenc , terror attack in the west bankidf chief of staff herzi halevi held a preliminari investig of the recent violenc in the west bank on tuesday . the command of the idf ' s valley brigad , lt .- col . meir biederman , present the main lesson learn follow the terrorist attack in which elan ganel wa murder in the jordan valley on monday . the idf is continu the manhunt for the terrorist who conduct the attack in huwara and in the jordan valley . '' the recent attack and incid took a heavi toll on us , and we are investig and studi them , '' said halevi . `` we will thwart terror of ani kind , and we will continu to use all oper and intellig measur in order to captur the terrorist . '' halevi addit condemn the violenc against isra secur forc report in recent day , say `` the idf is respons for secur in judea and samaria . the seriou riot in huwara after the difficult attack will be thoroughli investig as well . '' on tuesday night , idf maj .- gen . yehuda fuch , the command of central command , stress in an interview to n12 that the riot in huwara wa `` a pogrom conduct by lawbreak . '' fuch admit that the idf wa not prepar for the riot , say that while usual small disturb break out after terrorist attack and the idf had prepar for similar disturb , `` we did not prepar for a pogrom on the scale of dozen of peopl who came with incendiari materi , went to more than 20 locat , besid for the clash with soldier at a nearbi junction , and torch the hous and car of random palestinian . '' '' thi event surpris us in it scale and intens , '' ad fuch . `` it wa an embarrass event of lawbreak who act not accord to the valu i wa rais on and not accord to the valu of the state of israel and also not accord to the valu of judaism . '' fuch address the rioter in the interview , stress that `` the peopl respons for secur are the secur forc . even if there are peopl who think we ' re not do the job right , they do not have the author to act . we are respons for secur . thi is a democrat countri , that ' s how it work . '' fuch call on the leader of settlement to work to stop the extremist who conduct such attack , note that the major of settler do not conduct act of violenc like the rioter did . the central command command addit note that israel and the palestinian author are not current conduct secur coordin , ad `` we will see what will happen in the come day . at thi time , our effort to fight terror have not been harm by the lack of secur coordin . '' fuch also reject call for collect punish against palestinian , say that such measur don ' t help the war on terror and can even lead to further terror . in an interview with kan news , fuch addit reject claim that the split in the defens ministri between yoav gallant and bezalel smotrich wa affect the idf ' s abil to fight terror , say that he hasn ' t seen ani effect from the chang . on monday , a number of isra threw stone at an idf vehicl near hagaz junction , lightli damag the vehicl . idf soldier open a chase after the suspect and fire into the air . after one of the suspect wa caught , addit isra arriv at the scene and began verbal and physic assault the soldier . the suspect then got into a car and drove at high speed toward the soldier . an offic at the scene fire into the air and at the wheel of the vehicl in accord with idf arrest procedur . on tuesday afternoon , a number of isra threw stone at palestinian vehicl near the villag of al - mughayir . when idf soldier and polic arriv at the scene , they fire in the air in order to dispers the suspect who were throw stone at a palestinian truck . accord to palestinian report , the idf continu intens checkpoint on the road lead to jericho on tuesday as part of effort to find the terrorist who conduct the deadli shoot attack in the area on monday . nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir state that despit the violenc in recent day he had order polic to continu concentr effort to fight crime in east jerusalem . accord to the minist , 52 suspect terrorist were arrest and six illeg weapon were seiz in the past four day . addit , 224 checkpoint have been set up throughout east jerusalem . `` we will continu our secur polici which includ initi and determin also in the return of govern in east jerusalem , '' said ben - gvir . three arab home in the isawiya and jebl mukab neighborhood of east jerusalem were demolish by the jerusalem municip on tuesday , accord to palestinian report . & nbsp ;