hour after the ceasefir in the gaza strip went into effect on sunday night , hama and islam jihad announc they would not allow israel to drive a wedg between the two group . palestinian sourc in the gaza strip , howev , insist that the alreadi tens relationship between hama and islam jihad have been further strain by the weekend war with israel that began on friday afternoon . & ldquo ; mani islam jihad support are disappoint and feel betray becaus hama did not join the fight , & rdquo ; one of the sourc said on monday . & ldquo ; senior hama and islam jihad offici did not even talk to each other directli dure the three day of fight . they were commun onli through extern parti , especi egypt and qatar . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; senior hama and islam jihad offici did not even talk to each other directli dure the three day of the fight . they were commun onli through extern parti , especi egypt and qatar . & rdquo ; palestinian sourc in the gaza striphama ha come under attack by other palestinian for fail to join islam jihad and other arm group in fire rocket at israel . hama & rsquo ; s critic accus it of throw islam jihad under the bu by not join the fight . they claim that hama , which ha been rule gaza sinc 2007 , did not want to engag in anoth major militari confront with israel out of fear of lose control over the coastal enclav . hama , they ad , is awar that the palestinian in gaza are not readi for anoth war , in light of the heavi price they paid dure last year & rsquo ; s israel - hama war . other critic of hama claim that it leader were not realli sorri to see their competitor in islam jihad , the second - largest arm group in gaza , be dealt a sever blow as a result of the idf & rsquo ; s militari strike . over the past few year , report in sever palestinian and arab media outlet have refer to rise tension between hama and islam jihad . accord to the report , hama is unhappi that islam jihad is becom a domin and independ forc insid gaza . the tension reach their peak last year after sourc there reveal that member of hama & rsquo ; s izzadin al - qassam brigad detain islam jihad militiamen who were plan to launch rocket toward israel . hama , the sourc said , wa also worri about the grow cooper between islam jihad and other terrorist group insid gaza , includ those link to the fatah faction , the popular front for the liber of palestin , the democrat front for the liber of palestin , as well as tini islam state - inspir cell . leader of hama and islam jihad held a seri of meet over the past few month in gaza and lebanon , as part of an attempt to eas the tension and restor the militari and civilian cooper between the two side . the two group are now claim that one of israel & rsquo ; s main goal behind oper break dawn wa to set them against each other , and that the talk in israel about hama & rsquo ; s decis to sit on the fenc dure the fight aim to & ldquo ; sow discord and divis & rdquo ; among the palestinian . in keep with thi claim , the leader of hama and islam jihad are now boast that they actual manag to thwart the alleg isra conspiraci to creat dissens among the palestinian . that & rsquo ; s whi it wa import for hama leader ismail haniyeh and other leader of hi group to call the famili of the islam jihad member who were kill dure the fight to offer their condol . the hama leader also went to extrem length to emphas the import of maintain a & ldquo ; unifi front & rdquo ; in the battl against israel , to show that their relat with their islam jihad & ldquo ; brother & rdquo ; remain as strong as ever . the assess among palestinian in gaza is that hama ha emerg as one of the winner from the israel - islam jihad confront . hama succeed in present itself both as a mediat and & ldquo ; respons adult . & rdquo ; hama ha good reason to feel confidentunlik islam jihad , it did not suffer ani civilian or militari loss , as it wa not target by israel dure the fight . hama again manag to reassert it role as a major player in all matter relat to gaza . the egyptian , qatari and un mediat dealt with the hama leader as if they were the legitim and sole ruler of the gaza strip . by stay away from the fight , hama act as the & ldquo ; respons adult & rdquo ; that place the interest of it peopl abov other consider . islam jihad & rsquo ; s abil to pose a real threat to hama & rsquo ; s rule over the gaza strip ha suffer a setback in light of the elimin of a number of senior islam jihad command and the tremend damag caus to it weapon arsen . hama can now take credit for save islam jihad from be total destroy by israel . hama is now hope to reap the fruit of it new role as the & ldquo ; respons adult . & rdquo ; the ball , as far as hama is concern , is in the isra court . hama is not go to recogn israel , but the event of the past few day have again shown that it desir to stay in power remain it no . 1 prioriti .