women are break through more and more barrier to serv in elit idf unit in parallel to the ongo war . twenti - three recent pass initi vet round to move toward more specif train program for potenti serv in elit unit . out of those 23 , eight out of 10 pass from the five finger train organ which focus on assist women through these process . one woman , li hochman , from even yehuda , ha even move on to potenti vet for the sayeret matkal special forc unit . after one vet session , hochman told the magazin , & ldquo ; we did more in one morn than mani peopl do in a day . we can realli help with our militari servic . we have a lot of pride . we compet with a group of veri larg men . thi could deter lot of women and caus some anxieti , but if you understand you can do it all and you act with profession , then there is noth you can not achiev . & ldquo ; the sky & rsquo ; s the limit . everyth new is challeng . but thi is a chanc to be a posit influenc and an exampl , & rdquo ; she ad . which elit idf unit are women tri to enter ? more of the women are tri to make it into special unit like oketz , which doe combat and special oper use dog ; the anti - tunnel yahalom unit ; and the 669 search and rescu unit . in gener , women have receiv a windfal in support for elit unit follow the high level of perform of a number of idf femal combat fighter and polic combat fighter on oct . 7 and dure the gaza invas . there is also an increas number of women in higher rank career - track job in the idf , with two major - gener , seven brigadi - gener , 51 colonel , and 486 lieuten - colonel . if befor , one of the last remain object of doubter wa that idf women could perform stationari guard duti but that when a real war came they would be a liabil , all of the data and narr from oct . 7 and after suggest that femal combat fighter perform at high level under the most extrem possibl condit . corp . maya atila of the gaza divis & rsquo ; s border defens unit told the magazin about her oct . 7 experi on the southern front . after the massacr , she felt the idf would have easili let her switch to a lower - risk posit , but she insist on stay , explain , & ldquo ; it wa person for me that it wa import to do becaus also mayb someon would say women would not be abl to continu , but i couldn & rsquo ; t quit . no matter how hard it wa to go back to the lookout post , i will continu . & ldquo ; i understand the import . the combat fighter need us so much . the most signific messag for all young women who are afraid of take thi job in the idf : the mission is so import . it is the greatest pride you can have , & rdquo ; she said . besid some of the abov individu stori , there wa also encourag data month into the war at the end of 2023 . accord to the data , the number of femal drafte seek combat posit in the shadow of the war broke everi pre - war set goal . regard femal drafte & rsquo ; particip , border patrol unit were at 116 % ; battl - relat intellig collect wa at 133 % ; artilleri wa at 132 % ; air defens wa at 101 % ; rescu unit were at 122 % ; and border polic wa at 119 % . an addit 12 % of women drafte request to serv in combat unit sinc the start of the war . in addit , two women pass the vet process for the elit air forc search and rescu unit 669 . they have start a 20 - month elit train cours to join the unit & rsquo ; s combat rank . just get to the point where women can be consid for such a unit ha been a long and wind path . a petit to the high court of justic file a few year ago help pressur the idf high command into open some new combat unit to women . these includ yahalom and mobil deploy unit in the infantri corp in summer 2023 . that women would be abl to compet for spot in the iaf & rsquo ; s 669 combat search and rescu unit wa announc in octob 2022 and onli came to fruition in januari 2023 . some group still view thi progress as inadequ . they note that there are other militari in which women are alreadi allow to serv in all elit combat unit . still , there is no question that the recent trend , especi sinc the outbreak of the current war , ha led to the integr of more women into unit in which they previous could not serv . 