the isra air forc drop leaflet in the quneitra area of southwestern syria on sunday , warn syrian soldier against work with hezbollah , accord to syrian opposit sourc . & ldquo ; time after time , you are respons for the damag caus by your choic ! & rdquo ; read the leaflet drop by the idf , accord to a photo share by syrian journalist nour abo hassan . & ldquo ; the continu presenc of hezbollah in the syrian site of tal qalib and cooper with them in ani way will not pass well for you ! the presenc of hezbollah in the region brought you humili and you are pay the price for that . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; the continu presenc of hezbollah in the syrian site of tal qalib and cooper with them in ani way will not pass well for you ! the presenc of hezbollah in the region brought you humili and you are pay the price for that . & rdquo ; alleg iaf leaflet # القنيطرة طائرات مسيرة تابعة للجيش الإسرائيلي تقوم بإلقاء منشورات ورقية على قرى وبلدات # القنيطرة تؤكد من خلالها القصف الإسرائيلي الذي حصل منتصف ليلة أمس على # تل_قليب في # السويداء والذي استهدف موقعا ً عسكريا pic . twitter . com / ho49lragtb & mdash ; nour abo hasan ( @ nourabohsn ) decemb 11 , 2022accord to the as - suwayda 24 site , a radar site belong to the syrian militari at tal qalib wa hit by an isra airstrik on saturday night . the alleg airstrik wa not report by offici syrian sourc . the alma research and educ center note on sunday that a number of explos were heard in the area of tal qalib and the airport near it and that the site is host to air defens and intel gather system . we know of dozen of site where there is a possibl presenc of hezbollah and iranian in southern syria . the russian preoccup with ukrain and arm trade with iran allow the shia axi greater freedom of action in syria . below , a video taken of tel khalib and the airfield . pic . twitter . com / jcd1nlqpk3 & mdash ; israel - alma ( @ israel_alma_org ) decemb 11 , 2022alleg isra airstrik come shortli after report iran transfer advanc air defensesth report airstrik come just week after the syrian capit voic site report that syria and iran have been deploy new air defens system , includ jam and earli warn system , around damascu in order to prevent isra airstrik in the area . accord to the report , the new system were built by korean and chines compani and provid by iran as part of agreement reach between syria and iran . sourc told the capit voic that the syrian defens ministri test jam system in octob , succeed and get isra aircraft to leav syrian airspac at least twice . syrian loyalist sourc have report an increas in flight of isra and american reconnaiss aircraft near syrian territori in recent week , with sourc tell the capit voic that israel and the us were like tri to locat the new air defens system in order to target them . the last alleg isra airstrik report in syria were conduct in mid - novemb and target site in the coastal and central region of syria . the report also come as the idf announc on saturday night that it wa launch the snap & ldquo ; hot winter 2 & rdquo ; drill to improv the readi of isra troop for conflict on the northern front .