like most peopl in israel , ran wa awaken by siren on saturday . he live in tel aviv . hi full name can not be use for secur reason . he is a soldier in israel & rsquo ; s elit lotar counterterror unit . ran went to the shelter with hi famili , and then went back to sleep . then there wa anoth siren , and he turn on the tv to see the horrif imag the rest of the countri wa wake up to . in anoth part of israel , tal boorstein , a reservist and regiment command in the 969th battalion , which is part of the 7643 brigad in the gaza divis , wa also call up on shabbat . he left synagogu and said goodby to hi famili in order to head to hi unit , which is usual deploy in northern gaza . & ldquo ; we took our uniform and equip and went to the call - up , & rdquo ; said boorstein . thi would be hi third oper in gaza . mani reservist who had been out of the unit for year want to join and help . meanwhil , roe bergman , a compani command in kfir , wa also awaken at home . hi unit wa deploy near nablu in the west bank . he , too , don hi fatigu , got hi equip and weapon , and began prepar for war . & ldquo ; i took my equip and my rifl , and we head south , & rdquo ; he recount . & ldquo ; dure the drive , we began to understand how larg the attack wa , and we arriv near kibbutz re & rsquo ; im , drive from netivot and then through the field . & rdquo ; soon afterward , the soldier heard the sound of fight . they arriv at the kibbutz , where they met the unit & rsquo ; s command offic . the extent of the attack and horror of the day began to sink in . twenti - five kilomet north of re & rsquo ; im is anoth commun , or haner , near sderot . barak cohen , a member of the kibbutz & rsquo ; s secur team , wa also woken up by siren . the commun is two kilomet from the border . he heard from hi secur team , the kita konenut , that they need to go help their colleagu in erez , a kibbutz even closer to gaza , just across the road . the men got their weapon and ammunit and rush to erez . the secur detail live there were face a difficult situat , with terrorist infiltr from the border and shoot from bush and tree line . the civilian were all shelter at home . it wa fear that the terrorist had alreadi broken into the kibbutz . & ldquo ; immedi , i and anoth member of the konenut went to erez ; we found the leader of konenut , and he took us to the locat . we saw one person dead , from konenut , at the entranc to a hous , and there wa a lot of shoot at us and bullet over our head . we tri to respond with fire . & rdquo ; it wa still earli in the morn , but as the fighter began to arriv at variou locat , they becam awar of the extent of the attack . the idf wa still mobil . mani unit on the border had been overrun . retak gaza border town after hama massacr hundr of civiliansno one had ani idea that alreadi hundr of civilian were be massacr . the counterterror lotar mission deal with complex hostag situat . in gener , upon arriv it assess the situat and use precis tactic and special tactic to neutral terrorist . & ldquo ; i have to be certain about everi shot that i take and be respons for everi bullet that come out of my rifl , & rdquo ; said ran . the team is suppos to be an qrf ( quick reaction forc ) , along with other elit unit such as shaldag , duvdevan , and seyeret metkal . on saturday , it had to deal with a massiv terrorist wave swamp the entir border and threaten 20 commun and some 60 , 000 peopl . the qrf alway ha a unit on standbi that can proceed to a scene . by 7 : 30 a . m . , the first unit had arriv in sderot . thi wa a four - man team , and it wa confront a situat where , accord to some estim , 250 terrorist had tri to infiltr the citi . & ldquo ; as the first team went to sderot , my team member and i went to the unit and began mobil the team [ to oper ] alongsid the gaza strip , from south to north , to see how we could creat some safeti net around the strip in order to push and make it more organ when the entir militari arriv and join the fight , & rdquo ; boorstein explain . as he proceed to join hi unit , he said , all the reservist had receiv the gear that they need . thi wa in contrast to some report of reservist show up and say they lack some import item . & ldquo ; everi soldier who came got a weapon and helmet and everyth need , includ water , food , and ammunit . we have it all . & rdquo ; meanwhil , bergman & rsquo ; s kfir unit had retaken re & rsquo ; im . & nbsp ; there had been some 40 terrorist there , and they were neutral . the unit kill 10 of them . then they began to assist in the rescu of peopl . in one home , peopl were hide in a shelter , and terrorist were in the hous . the unit came to the door and manag to throw grenad , kill the terrorist and rescu those hide . two terrorist bodi were found . it took two day to secur the entir area . then the unit went to kibbutz be & rsquo ; eri , where there had been a massacr and more than 100 bodi were found . thi wa a difficult battl . now bergman ha been sent to the north , and anoth unit had replac their . for ran and the qrf , the battl had just begun . & nbsp ; the lotar went street by street in sderot , clear the citi of terrorist . they kill at least 15 among the enemi . they said terrorist were oper in mani place , and the initi chao meant that the enemi seem to be everywher . one member of the lotar wa kill in sderot ; anoth wa wound . the team of 12 , bolster by other member who had just arriv , wa then led by the sergeant , who took over for the wound command . & ldquo ; by 8 : 30 to 9 a . m . , a lot of special forc unit were join us to creat thi safeti net in sderot , and they continu the fight , & rdquo ; ran recount . the unit wa also involv in retak and secur the militari base near nahal oz , where , ran estim , there were 150 idf casualti . some were kill and burn aliv , he said . & ldquo ; you can imagin what they did to the bodi , and the amount of thing i & rsquo ; ve seen , it & rsquo ; s not even close to what a human be is . i can & rsquo ; t imagin what drive them to do such thing ... we save as mani soldier as we could ; some were trap and hide alongsid the outpost . & rdquo ; after secur the area , they move along the secur fenc to an idf outpost call taga . there , they found a scene from a horror movi . it wa quiet , silent even . yet the war wa rage along the border . the golani brigad wa suppos to be in taga . the counterterror forc had 28 member by thi time , includ some from oketz , the unit that oper with special train dog . ran prais one of the dog for save live in the battl . as they move through the outpost , which seem abandon , suddenli they saw two shape in the distanc . it could be a hostag situat , they fear . but it turn out to be two terrorist , and the isra fighter shot them . it took about 30 minut to clear the area , and they save five golani soldier who were shelter . & ldquo ; we scan anoth site nearbi that belong to anoth isra secur servic of israel . & rdquo ; when the area wa secur , they move on to anoth mission and drove to nir yitzhak , a kibbutz . & ldquo ; it wa saturday night . we were guard around the kibbutz and make sure no terrorist were infiltr the kibbutz line . by now , reserv team were mobil to be & rsquo ; eri . there wa a whole massacr there of 100 to 200 civilian ; none of them were arm , & rdquo ; he said . he then join idf unit from shayetet , shaldag , yamam and other to retak the area . it took 18 hour of fight . then they help evacu peopl from kissufim , nir yitzhak , sufa , kerem shalom , and other place . on octob 7 , the qrf face an unbeliev challeng never seen befor in israel . with 20 locat under attack and approxim six unit train for these kind of situat , they had to priorit where to go first . for instanc , shaldag and seyeret matkal went to sderot . other went to be & rsquo ; eri and ofakim . mani area were left for the local to defend , as they had to wait for the armi to arriv . that wa the case in erez . cohen and hi small team from the two commun were abl to save the kibbutz from slaughter by lay down fire and keep the enemi away from the commun & rsquo ; s entranc . howev , they felt surround for mani hour and knew there were enemi sniper nearbi . & ldquo ; from 7 to 11 a . m . , no one came to support us , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; we didn & rsquo ; t know what wa happen . we wonder & lsquo ; where is the armi ? & rsquo ; then we understood that there wa a larg attack . & rdquo ; they felt alon . the enemi brought up an rpg ( rocket - propel grenad ) and fire at them . it hit a hous , but luckili the famili insid surviv . they heard the sound of tank in the distanc but didn & rsquo ; t know what wa happen . at or haner , there wa concern that terrorist could strike . cohen face the difficult choic of whether to send two member of the team back to hi commun or to keep them in erez . they stay in erez . there wa a buzz , perhap a helicopt in the distanc . but the din of shoot meant it wa hard to know . eventu , the armi arriv at 11 a . m . and rescu the secur team . an entir commun wa save . other had been massacr . cohen wa then call up to hi unit and began serv near hi commun . & ldquo ; the casualti we had wa the member of the konenut who die , and two wound that we manag to rescu from the terrorist , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; we had a veri complex situat . & rdquo ; he emphas it is import to understand that in the most recent day of the war , hi battalion experienc success . & ldquo ; we are approach victori . we are a strong nation with a strong armi . & rdquo ; boorstein & rdquo ; s unit defend commun around gaza dure the fight on saturday and in the day after . he ha a long record of experi in these type of battl , have serv in the 2006 lebanon war and in thi year & rsquo ; s oper break the wave and oper shield and arrow . despit the initi setback on saturday and the massacr of civilian , he stress that israel will win thi war . & ldquo ; we will rebuild & ndash ; here and everywher in israel , & rdquo ; he said , ad that all of israel saw the hellish stori that unfold on shabbat . everyon watch the news and saw & ldquo ; veri difficult imag . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; but despit how hard it is , we will win and chang and becom a stronger societi as israel know how to do . & rdquo ; 