the palestinian author ha instruct it secur forc to take all measur to halt increas lawless and anarchi in hebron and it surround , a senior pa offici said on sunday . & ldquo ; the instruct from the palestinian leadership are clear and firm , & rdquo ; the offici told the jerusalem post . & ldquo ; there will be zero toler for anyon who break the law and intimid the resid . & rdquo ; the instruct came in respons to accus by mani resid , includ senior fatah offici and head of local clan , that the pa wa not do anyth to stop the recent wave of violent crime in the hebron area . last week , emad khurwat , a senior fatah offici in hebron , accus the pa of & ldquo ; conspir & rdquo ; against the citi . he also threaten to prevent palestinian offici from enter hebron and said that fatah gunmen were readi to replac the pa secur forc in enforc law and order . khurwat and other resid claim that the citi wa now control by larg clan that have dozen of gunmen who often intimid and extort resid . khurwat & rsquo ; s unpreced and public threat is seen by local resid as a direct challeng to the pa leadership . it also reflect increas tension between local fatah activist and the leadership of the faction , which is head by pa presid mahmoud abba . over the past few week , some of the clan deploy score of gunmen in variou part of hebron as part of famili feud , dure which a number of peopl were kill and sever busi set on fire . hebron ha long been famou for it tribal justic system , wherebi rival clan and individu solv their disput , includ murder case , away from the pa & rsquo ; s offici judiciari system . on saturday , pa prime minist mohammad shtayyeh visit hebron , where he chair an emerg meet of the command of the variou branch of the palestinian secur forc to discuss the deterior of the secur situat in the citi and it surround villag and town . the meet wa attend by pa governor of hebron jibrin al - bakri . dure the meet , which wa held at the headquart of the hebron governor , shtayyeh wa brief on the secur situat . accord to the pa & rsquo ; s offici news agenc wafa , shtayyeh wa also brief on & ldquo ; isra violat in light of the high pace of settlement expans , land seizur , settler attack , and incurs into the ibrahimi mosqu [ tomb of the patriarch ] . & rdquo ; the palestinian regularli describ visit by jew to the tomb of the patriarch in hebron and al - aqsa mosqu compound on the templ mount in jerusalem as & ldquo ; incurs . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; shtayyeh affirm the direct of presid mahmoud abba to meet the demand of the [ hebron ] governor , foremost of which is strengthen the steadfast of the citizen , provid secur and safeti for them and their properti , and maintain civil peac , & rdquo ; wafa report . after the meet , a pa offici in hebron said that order have been issu to the palestinian secur forc to arrest resid involv in violent crime and to collect illeg weapon . the offici claim that one of the main obstacl face law - enforc agenc wa the fact that mani of the suspect crimin have found shelter in the isra - control part of hebron .