the isra govern approv to extend the state of emerg in lod by 48 hour , the defens ministri announc on tuesday morn . the extens come follow the recommend of defens minist benni gantz , israel polic and the interior ministri - make it possibl to alloc rescu forc under polic command , allot further access to requir equip and continu the restrict of movement on resid of the citi . further state of emerg extens beyond three applic will requir full govern approv . under the current curfew , resid of the citi are prohibit from leav their home , except for go to protect area amid rocket fire or to receiv emerg medic treatment . polic warn that violat of these prohibit are punish by up to three year in prison . the extend order come as lod , ramla and other citi with mix popul of isra jew and arab & nbsp ; experi violent riot and infight on an almost nightli basi . the unrest ha left one dead , score injur , and home , vehicl and busi torch . the violenc continu across israel on monday as the polic and fire and rescu servic struggl to respond to the volum of incid . some 71 peopl were arrest for disrupt public order on monday night alon . lod ha becom a main point of content for polic and rioter , have becom a focal point for the civil unrest plagu the countri thi past week . amid the violenc , a synagogu , home , vehicl , garbag dump and open area have been torch in the southern isra citi . score have been left injur from burn , stone - throw incid or target assault . one person ha die . prime minist benjamin netanyahu said while visit lod on thursday & nbsp ; that there is no greater threat than the intern disturb brew throughout the countri . in light of the recent countrywid turmoil , the higher arab monitor committe in israel announc a gener strike across the arab - isra sector for tuesday , to express solidar with al - aqsa mosqu and the resid of sheikh jarrah . the committe @ @ @ s term for the strike call for an end to the & quot ; massacr & quot ; in the gaza strip , the aggress in jerusalem surround flashpoint such as al - aqsa and sheikh jarrah , and the immedi withdraw of right - wing jewish & quot ; settler gang & quot ; and polic forc from arab citi and villag . the strike is also call for a show of solidar with those detain dure the countrywid riot . the strike itself will encompass the entir arab work sector , with the except of the privat educ system and the arab health sector . the committe address a number of un bodi and other foreign mission in israel , request the protect of arab - isra citizen , call for them to & quot ; forc israel into take immedi step & quot ; to protect palestinian citizen and bring an end to the violenc against them . the leader of the druze commun , sheikh mofek tarif , issu a public statement condemn all act of violenc against other human be , ad that damag to public properti and place of worship is particularli shame and ask the public to act & quot ; wise and tolerantli & quot ; to avoid further escal . he ad that druze - who stand as a bridg of peac between commun and religion in israel - have a & quot ; moral oblig & quot ; to calm the tide between jewish isra and their arab neighbor . tarif also call on other religi leader to speak out in condemn of these illeg activ as he ha , in the hope other commun will follow suit toward nonviol .