on monday night , we will find ourselv on independ day , moment after remembr day , the most difficult remembr day that most of the citizen of the state of israel have ever experienc . it will be extrem difficult , and we will have a hard time be joy & ndash ; becaus just minut prior , we shed so mani tear rememb all the brother and sister that we lost thi year . yet , in my prayer on independ day i will recal the long histori of the jewish peopl , and i will say thank you to god with the knowledg that unfortun thi is not the first year in the histori of the jewish nation that jew have been kill for be jew . thi is not the first year that jew have been forc to leav their home , and thi is not the first year that we have wit destruct . so , i will thank god becaus we will all stand togeth and rememb that we have the israel defens forc , that we have a god in heaven who show us that even though they attack us with hundr of missil , some among the most advanc in the world , the holi one , bless be he , protect us and give us an air forc with advanc system , and soldier on land and sea who love the holi land and are readi to give up their live in defens of it . pray that the diaspora understand the need for israel & nbsp ; i will stand on independ day and i will pray know that thi year , more than ever , there are so mani jew around the world who understand the need for the state of israel . sinc last year , so mani more jew live in the diaspora have come to understand that the state of israel is crucial for the jewish peopl . i will thank god becaus those brother and sister of our from the diaspora , mani of whom did not realiz how much they were our brother and sister , discov just how much they were in everi way & ndash ; in real time . while we were be attack , defil and murder , they did everyth to assist and help us , and they had a real impact with their connect , their contribut , and their insight . i will thank god that the plane that fli to israel are full to the brim , and that all the mission that the ou and other organ have brought are alway fill to capac . that everi singl famili we visit and ask to hug , stood and hug peopl they didn & rsquo ; t know for sever minut . we were privileg to see the jewish peopl stand togeth and pray for the success of the state of israel and for the complet redempt . i am thank for the million of chapter of psalm recit and all of the torah learn for am yisrael . i will thank god becaus i know that our enemi do not want us to be happi on independ day . i will do so know that they commit shock act of terror to tri to prevent us from have an independ day , and the holi one , bless be he , save us from them . god gave us a strong armi and a strong nation . he gave us a wondrou and brave gener of young men and women who are fight fierc , who have enabl us to celebr thi independ day . thi year , i don & rsquo ; t need fighter jet to do show and fli - over . thi year , we can look within and see the braveri and heroism in the heart of each and everi one of us . we should all celebr thi independ day to show our enemi that they will not bring us down . they will not take from us even one minut of gratitud for the state of israel and to the peopl of israel . the writer , a rabbi , is execut director of ou israel .