& nbsp ; on april 7 , 2011 , a new era began for israel & rsquo ; s air and missil defens forc & ndash ; when the iron dome missil defens system complet it first success oper intercept against a short - rang threat origin from the gaza strip . & nbsp ; now , one decad later , it is time to analyz the decis - make process behind the system & rsquo ; s develop , some lesson learn from a decad of oper , and the prospect for further advanc and adapt over the next decad , includ potenti futur connect with laser solut . & nbsp ; iron dome & rsquo ; s unriv success on the battlefield & ndash ; which ha even made it , in mani peopl & rsquo ; s eye , the most import isra innov in the countri & rsquo ; s 70 year of exist & ndash ; ha produc countless articl , interview , book and televis program on the path to develop the system and it progress over the year . & nbsp ; for the sake of histori , those who made the decis and develop the system , and for the purpos of draw effect lesson for the futur , it is essenti that the record be set straight , and that the factual truth , albeit subject , be known , as it primarili appear in the state comptrol & rsquo ; s report 59a . & nbsp ; decid to develop iron dome & nbsp ; in 1996 , israel and the unit state agre to collabor on project thel ( tactic high - energi laser ) , mistakenli dub nautilu ( america & rsquo ; s earlier adventur in thi technolog field ) . from the start , the project wa develop as a technolog demonstr . in 2001 , a seri of test wa complet prove a laser beam can intercept a threat , but conclud that a chemic laser - base intercept system wa not suitabl for oper deploy in israel . low oper prepared ( technolog reliabl ) , complex logist ( size , avail , repair and transfer from site to site ) and environment concern were onli a few of the mani signific reason whi . & nbsp ; israel and the us decid to plan anoth system , smaller and more portabl , name mthel ( mobil thel ) . from thi decis , it can be understood that the cessat of the thel program wa not in ani way caus by israel & rsquo ; s exit from lebanon , as some have argu . & nbsp ; from 2001 to 2005 , israel and it american counterpart work on the new collabor but decid to discontinu it in 2005 while still in the plan stage , as per advic from the defens ministri & rsquo ; s director of defens research and develop ( ddr & amp ; d ) director shmuel keren and assess share by numer expert . it wa believ thi project would not lead to an oper weapon system given that there wa no forese futur for a chemic laser - base system . it wa clear that ani futur laser - base intercept system would be base on a solid - state laser , but such technolog would not be avail for & ndash ; what prove to be optimist & ndash ; at least anoth decad . & nbsp ; in the end , by 2005 , after roughli nine year of work and $ 600 million ( mostli fund by the us ) , the outcom wa a technolog demonstr , imposs to duplic or be use oper on an american test field . over the year , a seri of intercept test wa conduct on the system with an actual success rate of less than 50 % ( base on american offici data ) . & nbsp ; addit , a detail on - paper plan wa design for a small mobil system , mthe . the idea , later dub skyguard , wa not yet creat . skyguard & rsquo ; s statu can also be deduc from a northrop grumman ( ng ) propos submit to ddr & amp ; d down the road . the propos requir higher develop cost than all of iron dome & rsquo ; s develop from zero . statement contend that the thel system could have been brought to israel and operation , or that the mthel / skyguard system wa readi for product in 2005 were simpli not factual accur nor base in realiti . thi remain the case today , 15 year later . & nbsp ; in 2004 & ndash ; face elev threat , especi in southern israel & ndash ; an interag team wa set up to draft solut for defens system against short - rang threat . thi team , led by r & amp ; d unit director daniel gold , issu a call for propos and test dozen of potenti solut . eventu , at the end of 2005 , the team recommend develop a system base on rafael & rsquo ; s propos ( with chang ) & ndash ; and it wa name & ldquo ; iron dome . & rdquo ; the propos wa approv by ddr & amp ; d director keren and a rel small budget wa alloc , out of the depart & rsquo ; s overal budget , and a partnership with rafael that financi support part of the r & amp ; d effort . & nbsp ; in 2006 , in light of the chang threat landscap & ndash ; with the second lebanon war and rocket launch into israel serv as signific catalyst & ndash ; and inquiri by ng and other defens industri , keren present the propos concept to then - defens minist amir peretz , recommend iron dome . peretz adopt the suggest and even call for expedit develop . howev , there still wa not a signific budget alloc to the project , & nbsp ; in octob 2006 , after addit signific pressur , keren appoint a profession committe led by hi deputi jacob nagel , to test which solut would best protect israel from short - rang missil threat . the committe includ dozen of intern and extern expert in the field of missil , laser , oper research and doctrin . lt .- col . shachar shohat & ndash ; who later achiev the rank of brigadi - gener and serv as command of the air defens forc & ndash ; serv as the air forc repres on the committe . & nbsp ; for three month , the nagel committe work intens to test all potenti isra and intern solut . final , in decemb , the committe present it find and recommend to keren , to defens ministri director - gener gabi ashkenazi and to peretz , and they approv it . in februari 2007 , these recommend were present to prime minist ehud olmert , who author them . & nbsp ; israel & rsquo ; s state comptrol note , & ldquo ; ddr & amp ; d , through the work of the nagel committe , conduct an orderli process for test altern , and present the altern to differ parti and note the clear advantag with the iron dome system . each of the parti & ndash ; the director - gener , minist of defens , and prime minist & ndash ; approv ddr & amp ; d & rsquo ; s conclus . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; peretz declar that the iron dome concept wa proven , but would requir addit extern fund . olmert explain that iron dome & rsquo ; s develop wa unavoid and direct the defens ministri to approach the financ ministri to alloc the need budget . by june 2007 the project still had not receiv a substanti budget , and progress with ddr & amp ; d and rafael r & amp ; d budget , increas by sever dozen of million of shekel from peretz and act director - gener yehiel horev from the defens budget . & nbsp ; the nagel committe did not includ the thel system as a potenti solut , given previou assess cast doubt on it oper potenti or relev , and the inabl to be duplic . skyguard , ng & rsquo ; s solut , wa examin in detail . dure the process , ng & rsquo ; s vp met with the ddr & amp ; d director and thank him & ndash ; in write and in person & ndash ; for the opportun to present the propos to the committe . & nbsp ; in 2007 , upon take offic and face linger tension , defens minist ehud barak conven yet anoth hear , call for a re - present of the nagel committe find and recommend on each of the propos solut , includ anoth extern present of the skyguard system . barak then ratifi these recommend , declar develop of iron dome as essenti , and alloc the need budget out of the defens ministri budget . & nbsp ; follow thi approv , final negoti were conduct with rafael , the project wa submit to the govern , and it wa offici approv . in decemb 2007 , rafael sign a contract with the isra govern for the develop and equip of the first two iron dome batteri . & nbsp ; from thi point , develop of the project wa expedit by rafael , elta and m - prest under a ddr & amp ; d project team , led by then - lt .- col . chicco with the close guidanc of r & amp ; d director gold . & nbsp ; simultan , an unpreced lobbi campaign for skyguard kick off , draft senior retir militari offic , academ and media figur . thi campaign led to seriou incit , with person attack lob at director - gener pinha buchri , ddr & amp ; d director keren and hi deputi nagel , who were dub the & ldquo ; high - priest of iron dome & rdquo ; by the campaign . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; the lobbi & rsquo ; s effort includ draft pr expert , distribut market brochur , push defam both onlin and in newspap , and plan an approach to key us figur in an effort to harm the state of israel . thi wa reveal in articl by channel 11 & rsquo ; s ayala hasson and channel 10 & rsquo ; s raviv drucker . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; buchri , keren and nagel were at the forefront of defend the decis to develop iron dome , while gold and hi team were work on develop the system with the industri . they held dozen of meet with the leader of israel & rsquo ; s northern and southern commun , minist , mk , member of the foreign affair and defens committe , and member of the press and academia . upon review the factual data and decis - make process , almost everi one of these individu understood that they had been fed noth but misinform , and withdrew their support of the lobbi campaign . & nbsp ; as part of hi effort to defend the project , buchri ( with nagel ) travel as part of a profession deleg to the us to see the thel system in new mexico . they met with repres from ng and with relev member of the us militari who explain that the decis to stop develop of the project wa reach in consult with israel . buchri return to israel more convinc than ever that the thel system wa not relev , and they were complet in support of the decis - make process . & nbsp ; in 2008 , barak met with us secretari of defens robert gate , and they discuss way the us could support israel in it attempt to protect the home front from high - trajectori missil . thi wa larg motiv by america & rsquo ; s desir to prevent israel from enter a war with gaza . as a result of these meet , a joint committe led by ddr & amp ; d & rsquo ; s nagel and us gen . robin rand wa form to onc again test each of the possibl solut ( iron dome , skyguard , vulcan plank and other propos laser system ) . again the conclus wa reach that onli iron dome could suffici suppli the defens need for israel & rsquo ; s home front , while provid it leader the freedom to act as need . & nbsp ; the nagel - rand committe again determin that the skyguard system , still onli on paper , wa not a suitabl solut & ndash ; either for israel or the us . as part of thi committe , a deleg of us missil , radar , command and control , and laser expert arriv in israel , conduct in - depth discuss and visit both ddr & amp ; d and the isra defens industri . while the first visit start with mark skeptic surround the feasibl of develop the system , it end with admir for the system , but with expect that the project would not be complet on time or within budget . yet one year later dure a subsequ visit , the deleg wa enthral by the pace of iron dome & rsquo ; s develop and advanc in solv technic problem . they releas a profession report , optimist on the project & rsquo ; s success and keep to the project schedul and budget . & nbsp ; the nagel - rand committe recommend were present to and subsequ approv by keren , buchri and barak . they were then present to relev american stakehold and result in then - presid barack obama alloc $ 205 million in special assist to the program . a central element of the committe & rsquo ; s propos insist that assist be limit to equip the iron dome system in an effort to prevent ani futur potenti export restrict on the system and ensur develop remain & ldquo ; blue and white & rdquo ; in it entireti . & nbsp ; in the decad follow that decis , the us significantli increas it financi contribut to equip addit iron dome system and launcher . includ in the 2016 memorandum of understand between the us and israel , push by prime minist benjamin netanyahu and obama ( which enter into forc in fiscal year 2019 ) , a new , special section wa ad alloc $ 500 million annual to ballist missil defens , with the equip of iron dome compon be an import compon thereof . & nbsp ; the past decad & ndash ; analysi and lesson learn & nbsp ; today , the iron dome missil defens system is highli regard in profession , polit , militari and civilian circl both in israel and abroad , and ha receiv numer prize and prais for it groundbreak militari innov and success in save live . the term & ldquo ; iron dome & rdquo ; ha becom ingrain in the hebrew lexicon , synonym with incred success . & nbsp ; despit it oper and technolog success , those initi naysay were not quick to mute themselv or their critic . at the tactic level , iron dome & rsquo ; s oper capabl were call into question , while at the strateg level , concern were rais that the damag outweigh ani benefit , especi given the neg impact on the nation - level decis - make process and intern legitim . & nbsp ; they claim that iron dome , with the passag of time , had becom a burden rather than an asset and a doubl - edg sword . an academ research project conduct at the nation secur colleg , guid by one of the author of thi articl , analyz iron dome & rsquo ; s impact on the isra nation secur strategi & ndash ; econom , militarili , social and polit . after a decad of oper experi and more than 2 , 500 success intercept , the research conclus find that the iron dome system is a first - class asset and clear barrier breaker , not remot resembl a doubl - edg sword . iron dome often chang the decis - make process of israel & rsquo ; s polit echelon , and our enemi & rsquo ; method and tactic . & nbsp ; iron dome is a key element of israel & rsquo ; s multi - layer defens array , develop to protect the home front from incom missil threat . while iron dome protect against short - rang threat , the david & rsquo ; s sling system defend against mid - tier threat , and the arrow system defend against upper - tier threat . & nbsp ; the us armi , face mani threat similar to israel , decid to procur two iron dome batteri as an interim solut while decid what the most appropri endur solut would be for it need . simultan , the us marin also express interest in the system and have conduct sever success test in america . & nbsp ; the continu collabor between israel and the us in the develop and equip of iron dome contribut to strengthen the strateg and technolog collabor between the two countri and their defens of their respect civilian and servic member . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; as we celebr 10 year sinc iron dome & rsquo ; s first intercept , we are remind of the import of recal the overal goal that led decis - maker to develop thi system : & bull ; life and limb : save live abov all els , almost at ani cost . & bull ; strateg asset : protect strateg facil , militari facil and nation infrastructur . & bull ; econom defens : reduc the amount of direct and indirect econom damag ( cost of properti , human casualti and injuri ) and prevent interfer with the economi and nation gross product . & nbsp ; & bull ; strateg flexibl : provid addit option to polit decis - maker by reduc the risk pose by incom rocket . & bull ; abil to act : increas the militari & rsquo ; s freedom to act via the abil to carri out offens oper free from the fear of retaliatori rocket attack . & bull ; confid : rais the nation moral and spirit , decreas the psycholog impact on the popul caus by imag of damag and destruct , especi in the age of social media . & nbsp ; in - depth analysi of relev event of the past decad lead to determin of success on sever level , such as : & bull ; econom perspect : a review of the past decad & rsquo ; s econom data prove beyond all doubt that iron dome certainli stand up to the econom test . thi is further support with the realiz that the comparison can not be between the cost of the interceptor and the cost of a missil , but rather the total cost of a launch compar to the direct and indirect econom consequ result from incom enemi missil score direct hit . & bull ; societ perspect : iron dome , as an effect defens system , significantli contribut to israel & rsquo ; s sens of commun and nation pride . it contribut to israel & rsquo ; s degre of resili by reduc overal level of fear and anxieti , creat a unifi home front with all it civilian feel protect . in the battl over public opinion , the system also contribut to israel & rsquo ; s stori of success over the enemi and improv overal moral both dure and after period of combat . howev , it is also import to note that the system & rsquo ; s past success creat a danger of an illus of secur to civilian . to prevent such neg surpris , it is essenti that our leader set reason expect for citizen . outlook for the next decad & nbsp ; over the past decad , iron dome provid unpreced superior . dure the next decad , we can expect enemi will respond with technolog effort of their own . all sign suggest they have alreadi start , and thu there is no time to wast . test , improv and adapt of iron dome are constantli requir as a way to ensur it maintain it legendari superior . thi is an endless battl in the fight between the threat and the interceptor . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; without get into specif , it is clear that everi system ha limit and vulner . howev , if we do not put forth everi effort to further it innov and renew , our adversari will detract from iron dome & rsquo ; s effect and superior . there is no indefinit hermet defens solut . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; we can not rest on our laurel . we must consist test the enemi & rsquo ; advanc and threat trend , and adapt our system to achiev optim effect defens , in order to maintain relev on the futur battlefield . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; one key area of interest is laser - base solut . & nbsp ; dure the iron dome decis - make process and continu ever sinc , baseless alleg have been made relat to the perform of laser - base system versu kinet intercept - base system use missil . & nbsp ; each solut ha advantag and disadvantag that are import to rais and understand . understand the pro and con of a laser - base system is especi import today , given the great progress recent made in israel in technolog develop . & nbsp ; it is critic to correct some of the factual incorrect argument in favor of transit to a laser - base system : & bull ; & ldquo ; a laser - base intercept system will prevent disrupt to daili life , as it is an almost perfect and hermet system . & rdquo ; hermet system do not exist , and it is clear that with ani system , daili routin will be disrupt . in ani case , the perform of the missil - base system seem to be better than those base on laser . & bull ; & ldquo ; laser system will better handl barrag attack . & rdquo ; actual , the opposit is true and thi is one of the most compel disadvantag to a laser - base system , sinc such a system & rsquo ; s primari role would be to handl a seri of threat . statement alleg & ldquo ; intercept at the speed of light & rdquo ; are mislead . while the beam can reach it target at the speed of light and notabl faster than a missil , it must remain on each target for sever second to destroy it ( how long can not be reveal ) and larg depend on the threat variant , the strength of the beam and it distanc from the target . the laser - base system would be quit limit in it abil to counter attack salvo ( unless it could be built with multipl beam , mean anoth system , which would substanti increas the overal cost ) . in multi - purpos missil - base system , the missil are launch independ , are oper simultan by the system and oper instantan on the target to counter incom threat . & bull ; & ldquo ; laser system don & rsquo ; t requir adapt for new threat . & rdquo ; laser - base system are not robust , and each threat need to be program for separ . & nbsp ; on februari 8 , 2020 , the defens ministri announc a groundbreak technolog achiev in the develop of the solid - state laser . the depth and graviti of thi achiev are noteworthi , as is it potenti for strengthen israel & rsquo ; s low tactic defens layer capabl . the correct and plan use of thi new technolog add to the intercept capabl in a newer , cheaper way , base on an understand of it limit . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; while thi is a major advanc that allow for a demonstr of the system & rsquo ; s battlefield capabl , the full oper rang of the system is still sever year and hundr of million of shekel of develop away . there is no doubt that the addit of a laser interceptor , alongsid the classic iron dome interceptor , will improv overal perform and will also be benefici to israel & rsquo ; s partner , includ the us . & nbsp ; in summari , after a decad of oper work of the iron dome system , it can be said that we must tip our hat to all those who have work on thi project over the past 15 year , the decis - make stage , develop of the system , it integr and it transit into success operation and use , through continu improv along the way . & nbsp ; that be said , iron dome is not yet complet , and it will like continu for mani year to come . our enemi are learn the system all the time and without question they never ceas to tri to surpris us . the role of all those involv is to alway be one step ahead of them . brig .- gen . & nbsp ; ( re ) & nbsp ; prof . & nbsp ; jacob & nbsp ; nagel & nbsp ; is & nbsp ; a & nbsp ; senior & nbsp ; fellow & nbsp ; at & nbsp ; the & nbsp ; foundat & nbsp ; for & nbsp ; the & nbsp ; defens & nbsp ; of & nbsp ; democraci & nbsp ; ( fdd ) & nbsp ; and a visit professor in the aeronaut and space faculti at & nbsp ; the & nbsp ; technion . & nbsp ; nagel & nbsp ; serv & nbsp ; as & nbsp ; act & nbsp ; nation & nbsp ; secur & nbsp ; advis & nbsp ; and & nbsp ; head & nbsp ; of & nbsp ; the & nbsp ; nation & nbsp ; secur & nbsp ; council & nbsp ; under & nbsp ; prime minist benjamin netanyahu , serv as head of the committe that recommend the develop of iron dome . brig .- gen . ( re ) shachar shohat is execut vice presid of rafael advanc defens system , previous serv as head of the air forc & rsquo ; s aerial defens unit . shohat serv as the air forc repres on the nagel committe .