nation secur minist itamar ben gvir ' s announc on monday regard hi choic of israel & rsquo ; s next polic chief , avshalom pele , serv not just as a gener announc , but also as a warn to prime minist benjamin netanyahu that he could act to toppl the govern if israel agre to concess in a hostag deal that ben - gvir oppos . ben - gvir ' s announc wa not brought for approv to minist benni gantz ' s nation uniti parti , which respond on monday even that it expect netanyahu to respect a coalit agreement give it veto power over major appoint . the fact that ben - gvir made the announc without take gantz into account plant the excus to leav the govern if gantz appli hi veto . thi connect directli to a threat from ben - gvir earlier on monday , in a post on x , that if netanyahu end israel ' s war against hama without an extens attack on hama in rafah , he will & ldquo ; ceas to have a mandat to serv as prime minist . & rdquo ; in other word , the time of the polic chief appoint wasn & rsquo ; t a coincid , but a remind of ben - gvir & rsquo ; s leverag over netanyahu . in order to dissolv the 120 - member knesset and forc an elect , 61 mk must support it dissolut . the departur of ben - gvir & rsquo ; s six seat in itself is not enough to bring down the 72 seat govern coalit , but it will give gantz the power to bring down the govern in the near futur by leav with hi eight seat . ben - gvir is hover around the 10 - seat mark in most poll , and he thu stand to gain from an elect . but in order not to receiv blame for the rise of a possibl centrist govern , he need to be abl to explain to hi voter whi he decid to leav . inact on rafah coupl with an inabl to move forward with hi choic of commission would serv as an adequ reason . unilater announc pele as hi choic for polic chief may be a rel empti threat , as it first must receiv the approv of israel & rsquo ; s advisori committe on senior civil servic appoint . thi committe usual approv the candid brought befor it , but in pele & rsquo ; s case , it may not . pele engag in illeg quid - pro - quoth polic investig depart recommend in 2015 that he not be promot after a record reveal that he engag in a seemingli illeg quid - pro - quo with a local author leader . pele wasn & rsquo ; t indict after the record wa disqualifi as evid due to privaci - relat infract . then - polic chief roni alsheich ignor the recommend and promot pele , but the advisori committe may not . still , ben - gvir & rsquo ; s announc and nation uniti & rsquo ; s subsequ respons that it expect netanyahu to respect it veto power , if it choos to use it , up the pressur on the prime minist to appeas ben - gvir by other mean to keep the nation secur minist on board . the move wa typic of ben - gvir , who , on a number of occas , ha threaten to leav the govern unless he receiv certain concess . for exampl , ben - gvir threaten to jump ship when netanyahu wa about to announc a freez on the judici reform just over a year ago , follow mass protest and strike . netanyahu convinc him to stay despit the freez by agre to a govern decis to begin the process of form a nation guard , which wa a major polici goal for ben - gvir . thi time around , ben - gvir may condit remain in the govern after a hostag deal on a commit from netanyahu to push through pele & rsquo ; s appoint regardless of the nation uniti veto . if pele & rsquo ; s candidaci is struck down , ben - gvir will like demand someth els . for most of 2023 , ben - gvir wa consid a loos cannon and the largest potenti threat to netanyahu & rsquo ; s govern . but with haredi parti take over in recent month as the major polit threat due to the issu of haredi nation servic , ben - gvir made hi presenc felt and remind the prime minist that he must be taken into account as well . & nbsp ;