for the first time in 50 year , israel no longer enjoy the statu of a & ldquo ; liber democraci & rdquo ; due to & ldquo ; substanti declin in the indic measur the transpar and predict of the law , and govern attack on the judiciari , & rdquo ; accord to the v - dem institut & rsquo ; s 2024 democraci report . v - dem , short for varieti of democraci , is a research institut base in sweden that measur the level of democraci worldwid base on a varieti of what it defin as high - level principl of democraci . the institut publish a yearli democraci report that split the world & rsquo ; s countri into four categori : liber democraci , elector democraci , elector autocraci , and close autocraci . elector democraci , accord to v - dem , includ & ldquo ; multiparti elect for the execut are free and fair ; satisfactori degre of suffrag , freedom of express , freedom of associ . & rdquo ; liber democraci includ the abov , as well as & ldquo ; judici and legisl constraint on the execut along with the protect of civil liberti and equal befor the law . & rdquo ; israel wa a liber democraci sinc the 1970 , but in 2023 becam an elector democraci , the report said . accord to the report , indic that lower israel & rsquo ; s rate includ a 2023 knesset bill & ldquo ; strip the suprem court of the power to invalid law , thu undermin check on execut power . & rdquo ; a bill sever limit the suprem court & rsquo ; s abil to strike down regular law and complet remov it power to invalid basic law , inde pass it first read in the knesset , but did not pass into law . regard israel , the report ad that & ldquo ; indic that are in substant declin also includ freedom from tortur , & rdquo ; but did not expand . yair golan on whi israel ' s democraci got downgradedyair golan , former idf deputi chief of staff , meretz mk and current candid for leadership of the labor parti , said in respons to the report , & ldquo ; a full year of messian dream , incess threat against the judici system , oppress legisl , threat against the freedom of the press , harm fundament right of demonstr , and appoint minist who are crimin , led us to lose our rank as a liber democraci . & rdquo ;