israel ha confirm the ident of the eight hostag who were releas on thursday even , after 54 day of be held captiv by hama in the gaza strip . belal and aisha zaidnabel and aisha zaidna are two of four member of the zaidna famili , includ father yosef hami and their sibl hamza , who went miss on octob 7 when hama terrorist invad kibbutz holit . they were work in the kibbutz ' s cow shed at the time . despit govern involv hami and hamza ' s whereabout remain unknown , and they have not been offici classifi as hama captiv . shani goren , 29shani goren , 29 , wa taken hostag from her home in nir oz by hama terrorist on octob 7 . she wa a counselor for mani year in the kibbutz ' s youth organ . one of the children she work with in that role wa eitan yahalomi , a 12 - year old boy who wa also kidnap on oct . 7 and wa releas earlier thi week . accord to shani ' s sister , shira , shani wa with eitan in captiv , and watch over him , share her food with him and look after hi wellb . amit soussana , 40amit soussana , 40 , wa kidnap by hama terrorist after they invad her home in kfar azza , one of the hardest hit area on octob 7 . amit is the youngest of three sister , an attorney at one of israel ' s most promin intellectu properti firm . a nativ of sderot , she move to kfar azza a year ago . mia schem , 21mia schem , 21 , wa at the nova festiv with her friend on octob 7 when hama terrorist invad israel from gaza and massacr hundr of peopl at the festiv , and kidnap other includ mia . in the day follow the massacr , hama releas a video of schem show she had been treat for an injur arm , and of her tell viewer she wa safe and ask them to help bring her home as soon as possibl . a tattoo artist in modiin , schem had made a tattoo of an isra flag surround by heart just a week befor the massacr , due to her love for her countri , accord to the owner of the shop where she work . & nbsp ; sapir cohen , 29sapir cohen , 29 , wa kidnap along with her boyfriend , sasha trufanov , from hi famili ' s home in kibbutz nir oz . hi mother , yelena , and grandmoth , irena tati , were also taken captiv . hi father wa kill . yelena and irena , who hold russian citizenship , were releas by hama earlier thi week after a request by russian presid vladimir putin . sasha remain in captiv . & nbsp ; ilana gritzewski , 30ilana gritzewski , 30 , wa abduct from kibbutz nir oz along with her partner , matan zanguak . a dual mexican nation who made aliyah 14 year ago after attend high school in israel through the naal program , gritzewski had told friend and famili she felt she had `` made it `` as an isra by live in nir oz and date an isra . & nbsp ; in a post to the social network x after gritzewski ' s releas , mexican foreign minist alicia barcena thank the qatari govern for it `` invalu mediat , '' and said mexico wa still work to liber the other mexican hostag , orion hernandez . nili margalit , 41nili margalit , 41 , is a pediatr nurs who wa kidnap from her home in kibbutz nir oz . it took sever week for author to confirm that margalit had been kidnap , as her home had been complet burnt to the ground . after former hostag yochev lifshitz ' s releas , the elderli woman said that margalit had been with her in captiv , and had tend to the other hostag ' injuri , care for other `` as she alway did . ''