israel & rsquo ; s budget deficit could run into doubl digit by the end of 2024 and could caus intern financi actor to lose trust in israel & rsquo ; s economi , opposit mk warn in a knesset financ committe session on tuesday . the budget deficit is the differ between the govern & rsquo ; s expens and it incom or asset and occur when a countri & rsquo ; s spend exce it incom . the updat 2024 budget that pass into law in march set the budget deficit ceil at 6 . 6 % , but by the end of april alreadi reach 7 % . committe chairman mk mosh gafni ( unit torah judaism ) held the session after nine committe member , all from the opposit , demand he address the issu . yesh atid mk vladimir beliak , the coordin of the opposit in the committe , point out at the begin of the session that he had warn dure the budget debat in march of thi scenario , and critic the govern for reject step to decreas it expenditur , such as close down ministri or reduc the amount of & ldquo ; coalit fund & rdquo ; which beliak claim were reserv for polit purpos . & ldquo ; i want to know , what deficit will we reach ? i have not heard from the financ minist [ bezalel smotrich ] & hellip ; if we arriv at a doubl - digit deficit , what will the repercuss be vi - & agrav ; - vi the credit rate compani ? what will the repercuss be on the social servic that the state can provid ? & rdquo ; beliak said . the deficit appli to the past 12 month , and the repres from the financ ministri & rsquo ; s budget depart , asaf wexler , argu that the deficit will shrink back to within the 6 . 6 % limit by year & rsquo ; s end . accord to wexler , the sharp increas in the deficit reflect month of intens fight and econom slowdown . it also reflect the & ldquo ; situat of veri high uncertainti & rdquo ; as to when the fight will end , and consequ to israel & rsquo ; s econom perform . wexler admit , howev , that if a war break out in israel & rsquo ; s north , the financ ministri would like need to updat it deficit forecast . mk critic other aspect of the govern ' s performancedur the session , both beliak and labor mk naama lazimi critic other aspect of the govern & rsquo ; s perform on the economi . these includ break 2023 & rsquo ; s deficit ceil despit updat the 2023 budget in decemb ; the downgrad of israel & rsquo ; s credit rate by both s & amp ; p and moodi ; the fact that gafni , who is ultra - orthodox ( haredi ) , ha refus to pass sever provis laid out in the budget to increas govern incom , to protest the withhold of fund he claim have not been given to the haredi school system ; the uptick in the cost of live and inflat remain high at 2 . 8 % ; and other aspect . the session also came a day after the financ ministri publish an updat version of what is known as the & ldquo ; numer , & rdquo ; which comput expect govern spend three year ahead . accord to the numer , the govern ha alreadi commit to spend billion more in the upcom year than it is allow to do by law . for exampl , the govern ha alreadi commit to spend ni 600 billion in 2025 , higher than the legal limit of ni 545 billion ; and it commit to spend ni 615 billion in 2026 , despit a limit of ni 569 . 8 billion . the result is that ahead of the 2025 budget , the state will either need to reduc it spend , which could affect it abil to provid servic ; or rais tax . & nbsp ;