palestinian terrorist murder meir tamari , a 32 - year - old hermesh resid , in a shoot attack carri out near the northern west bank settlement on tuesday . tamari wa initi serious wound in the attack , magen david adom said as it paramed treat him for gunshot wound to hi chest and shoulder , at the scene along with idf medic personnel . he wa rush to hillel yaff medic center in hadera in seriou condit befor the medic center report that he had die . he wa marri and a father of two young children . the mother of tamari ' s wife , tali , is the second wife of binyamin horgen , who lost hi first wife , esther horgen , in a terrorist attack in the reihan forest , north of hermesh , in 2020 . the fatah - link al - aqsa martyr brigad group reportedli took credit for the attack and there were suspicion that the terrorist were hide in the jenin area . idf soldier oper in the area of a shoot attack near hermesh . ( credit : idf spokesperson ' s unit ) further , the terror group sent out messag to palestinian in the area to eras ani secur video camera footag to prevent isra secur forc from track the culprit movement . for their part , secur forc were almost immedi on a manhunt to catch the terrorist perpetr as the idf erect addit checkpoint to limit their abil to maneuv . there wa some controversi from local isra leader who claim that the incid would have been avoid if a nearbi checkpoint had not been abandon . in contrast , the idf said that the checkpoint would have made no differ becaus the shoot took place use a drive - by fire tactic . even after the incid , the idf said that while it ha increas it presenc in the gener area and that it nearbi forc can man the checkpoint in question quickli if need , it ha no plan to add forc to man the specif checkpoint round - the - clock that local isra leader want to be reinforc . defens minist yoav gallant said earli tuesday afternoon that he had receiv a secur updat on the situat and that he would hold an addit wider meet with top defens offici in the come hour . prime minist benjamin netanyahu express hi condol to the tamari famili on tuesday afternoon , say `` our forc are current in pursuit of the terrorist in order to settl account with them , and they will be settl forthwith . just as we have found everi terrorist and close account with them , we will do so thi time as well . '' eu ambassador to israel dimit tzantchev post on twitter , & ldquo ; i ' m shock and sadden by yet anoth shoot attack in the west bank , which kill an isra father of two . send deepest condol to hi famili . i condemn thi cowardli and brutal act of violenc ! we stand togeth against terror , which need to be reject by all . & rdquo ; idf - palestinian clash in israel ' s west bankther have been sever either attempt terror attack or alterc between the idf and palestinian in the west bank in recent day . in the broader outlook , there ha been a seri of wave of palestinian terror from the west bank against israel sinc march 2022 with the idf engag in almost nightli raid against palestinian terror suspect sinc mid - spring 2022 . although there have been multipl dip in terror activ , especi in late 2022 , the idf ha not manag to stabil the situat in the west bank to date .