the biden administr is oppos to the forc reloc of palestinian from gaza to neighbor egypt , us secretari of state antoni blinken told palestinian author presid mahmoud abba when he met with him in ramallah on sunday . blinken & ldquo ; made clear that palestinian must not be forcibl displac , & rdquo ; state depart spokesman matthew miller said after their meet . they also spoke about the import of restor stabil to the west bank and & ldquo ; the need to stop extremist violenc against palestinian and hold those account respons , & rdquo ; miller said . the two met dure blinken & rsquo ; s visit to the region close to one month into the start of the gaza war . he met with abba after hold talk with isra offici in tel aviv and arab leader in jordan over the weekend . in hi meet with arab leader , such as king abdullah in jordan on saturday , he attempt to assuag their fear over the possibl of a forc expuls of palestinian from gaza . us presid joe biden issu the same messag to abdullah when he spoke with the monarch last tuesday . they & ldquo ; agre that it is critic to ensur that palestinian are not forcibl displac outsid of gaza , & rdquo ; the white hous said after the call . us nation secur council spokesman john kirbi echo that sentiment in speak with report last wednesday . he reject ani report of a plan to expel palestinian from gaza . & ldquo ; i want to stress that is not our polici . that is not what we are after . we want to make sure that the peopl of gaza , should they want to go back home , can go back home . but if they want to get out in the interim , they should be abl to get out . & rdquo ; palestinian flee home in gaza to escap idf bomb , fail rocket launchessom 1 . 4 million of the 2 . 3 million resid of the gaza strip have fled their home in an attempt to escap idf bomb or explos from fail palestinian rocket launch . hama claim that close to 10 , 000 palestinian have been kill sinc the start of the war on octob 7 . isra have suggest that palestinian civilian in gaza should be temporarili allow to reloc to egypt for their safeti until the war end . palestinian have voic concern that thi would be a second expuls , akin to what happen to them dure israel & rsquo ; s war of independ in 1948 when invad arab countri encourag them to flee while they & ldquo ; push the jew into the sea . & rdquo ; some 750 , 000 arab fled or in some case were forcibl expel from their home dure the war , an event that palestinian refer to as the & ldquo ; nakba & rdquo ; ( catastroph ) . pa envoy to the un riyad mansour told the secur council last monday that & ldquo ; israel want to depopul the gaza strip complet ... and throw them [ gazan ] into the lap of egypt in the sinai desert . & rdquo ; kirbi last wednesday stress that & ldquo ; there is no us polici for endors for some sort of perman settlement & rdquo ; of palestinian outsid of gaza . the war in gaza wa ignit by the infiltr into southern israel of hama terrorist who murder over 1 , 400 peopl and took more than 240 peopl hostag . hama offici ghazi hamad told a lebanes news outlet thi week that hi organ would execut more octob 7 attack , becaus it doe not believ that israel should exist . & nbsp ; kirbi said , & ldquo ; thi is what is at stake for the isra peopl , that is what is at stake for the peopl of gaza , that hama is will to continu thi fight and will continu to tri and slaughter innoc isra . those are chill comment and we all ought to take them serious . & rdquo ; hama , he said , can not remain in power after the war , he ad . an isra diplomat sourc told report on sunday that the idf must retain secur control of gaza after the war . & ldquo ; i don & rsquo ; t see a situat where israel will not have suprem secur respons in gaza , & rdquo ; the sourc state . work must also be done to chang the mindset of palestinian societi there , the sourc ad . & ldquo ; it is not enough to restor gaza . it must be put through a process of de - nazif , & rdquo ; the sourc ad . the sourc note that the problem wa not limit to gaza , but also includ the west bank . & ldquo ; thi cultur [ of want to kill jew ] still exist in the palestinian author , & rdquo ; the sourc said , warn dure the convers that west bank settlement were in danger of hama attack . blinken told abba that washington believ the pa & ldquo ; should play a central role in what come next in gaza , & rdquo ; said a senior state depart offici who brief report travel with blinken . the offici said the futur of gaza wa not the focu of the meet but that pa offici appear will to play a role . abba told blinken that gaza is & ldquo ; an integr part & rdquo ; of the state palestinian want , accord to an account of the meet from the offici palestinian news agenc wafa , which suggest ani pa role in govern gaza would have to be part of a wider settlement of the decad - old conflict . & ldquo ; we will fulli assum our respons within the framework of a comprehens polit solut that includ all of the west bank , includ east jerusalem , and the gaza strip , & rdquo ; abba wa quot by wafa as say . reuter contribut to thi report .