chen peiper , born in the netherland , is an esteem isra jewelri design and teacher , and over the last two decad ha been a glass sculptor . as an artist , she is veri sensit to and percept of the surround realiti . in her career , peiper & rsquo ; s work have been on show at numer solo and group exhibit in israel ( in 2023 at the tel aviv biennial of craft and design at the eretz israel museum ) , the unit state , and europ . she work with differ techniqu , use materi such as gold , silver , stainless steel , aluminum , and copper . when design sculptur , she combin glass with metal . her work reflect her person experi ( as in her solo show & ldquo ; fish plu & rdquo ; in 2020 ) and social exposur . in 2022 , peiper particip in the venic art biennial , present covitrum & ndash ; 18 glass anonym face in variou mask worn dure the pandem . there , she also show the power refuge , dedic it to the african emigr . & nbsp ; the artist & rsquo ; s latest work , new life , is center on the motif of isra flag , which express peiper & rsquo ; s deep concern for the situat in israel , dure last year & rsquo ; s protest and the ongo war . in an interview with the magazin , peiper said that she made aliyah dure the yom kippur war , and she share her memori from that crucial - for - israel time . thi wa in 1973 , when peiper wa nearli 27 year old , and the state of israel wa onli 25 . almost as peer , they grew up togeth . befor we move on to your current work , as a sea lover i must ask you about your solo exhibit from 2020 about the underwat world , & lsquo ; fish plu . & rsquo ; whi fish ? it & rsquo ; s relat to my childhood in holland . my parent use to have a summer hous by the sea , and i wa alway on the water : in a sailboat , a rowboat ; i wa veri sporti , and the water wa veri import to me . i wa live in it . so i made sculptur of what i rememb . but also one of the sculptur wa inspir by a draw of my grandson , which he made when he wa six year old . all the sculptur were in the fuse techniqu ; i use transpar and hand - paint glass , combin with silver , copper , and iron . & nbsp ; a magic experi for the viewer and a nostalg trip into your past . speak of your past , when we first met , in decemb , you said that you move to israel 50 year ago & hellip ; ye , in 1973 , in the middl of the [ yom kippur ] war . i made aliyah at the age of 26 , almost 27 . i wa alreadi after my jewelri design studi at rietveld academi of art , in amsterdam . i had been alreadi work . we ( my husband and our one - year - old daughter , tamar ) were alreadi on our way to israel when the war start . were you on the plane ? no , my husband said that the plane went too quickli , and he want us to have an adventur , so we went on a cruis , on a ship to israel . we start it from the south of franc . just as we were about to begin our trip , some peopl told us there wa a war in israel . then , we want to make aliyah even faster . the war didn & rsquo ; t stop you from thi move ? no , when you want to live in a countri , a war is not a reason to go away . you stay here ; you don & rsquo ; t leav the countri becaus of a war . and whi did you want to make aliyah in the first place ? my husband is isra , born in tel aviv . he ha live in holland for 10 year , and we met at the academi of art . we could have stay in holland , but it wa clear to us that we could not live in both countri , and we decid that we want to live in israel . & nbsp ; follow thi decis , you arriv in the middl of the yom kippur war ... it happen like that . we move in with gidi & rsquo ; s , my husband & rsquo ; s , parent in ramat hasharon , which made thing much easier . & nbsp ; how wa israel back then ? how do you rememb israel dure the yom kippur war ? citi without men . tel aviv , hod hasharon , complet without men . for a few month , it wa like that . life wa quieter . there wa nobodi on the street . it wa a real war for us in the center of israel . now dure the war peopl continu their live , shop are open , and peopl are sit at coffe shop ; back then , the street were empti . but also the street look differ . now everyth is modern ; in 1973 there were cloud of sand on the road of ramat hasharon . and how differ wa the societi of israel back then in comparison to today & rsquo ; s ? it & rsquo ; s hard for me to say . i jump into the group of gidi & rsquo ; s friend . they all were in the armi and all talk about the armi , so it wa difficult . and they were shi to speak in english to me at that time . but in gener , you could have visit a friend or a neighbor anytim . now you must call or text to set up a visit . [ back then , ] the door to the apart were alway open . & nbsp ; from what you are say , it sound like peopl were closer to each other . as we speak , i & rsquo ; ve just realiz that you and the state of israel are almost the same age . sinc 1973 , the veri young state of 25 year and you , almost 27 year old , as peer you grew up togeth . i have never thought of thi , but thi is true , ye . [ she laugh . ] and after the yom kippur war , how do you recal israel ? we all work veri hard . we want to build someth , and we felt we did . & nbsp ; do you mean your life or also israel ? also israel . & nbsp ; so after the war , you start to work in your profess , as a jewelri design ? ye , at home . peopl have come especi to me . i look at how a person behav and what he [ or she ] like , and base on that i wa design . & nbsp ; befor shift to glass sculptur ( which is your main focu right now ) , for 40 year you were creat jewelri , show it at profession exhibit in the netherland , israel , and the us , and you were also teach how to design . & nbsp ; ye , i taught design at a technolog center for jewelri in tel aviv ( 1985 - 1995 ) , and in 1993 at a special program for bedouin girl and young women who were make tradit bedouin jewelri but want to learn about other approach ; and ( in the year 1990 - 2000 ) at beit berl art colleg in ramat hasharon , where i wa head of the jewelri depart . & nbsp ; so you had an establish profession posit , and suddenli in 2002 you went to bezalel academi of art and design to studi glass design . what trigger that ? i wa look , for a long time , for someth els . i hope that if i had anoth materi , it would be more interest for me and more creativ . my husband , who ha been alway veri support of me , saw in a newspap that there wa an open of a new depart of glass , as a second degre , at bezalel . i appli and got accept . it wa two year of hard work , but it wa veri interest to me to learn variou techniqu of work with glass . it wa wonder , in the middl of my life to start with a new materi ! but i have never forgotten about my metal . the metal alway help me to design the insid of the glass . it add the feel . i have combin it with glass . what attract you to glass ? it can be transpar and doesn & rsquo ; t have to . you can do everyth with it , move it in all the direct you want to . anoth thing , jewelri is also art , but when you creat in gold it is [ display ] in a glass box ; peopl can & rsquo ; t touch it . and i like it when peopl can touch a sculptur . & nbsp ; it chang the experi of the viewer . with your art you reflect on your person experi , but also on group and social exposur , such as war , the issu of african refuge , or the pandem . in 2022 , at the venic art biennial , you show [ the instal ] covitrum ( covid and vitro , & lsquo ; glass & rsquo ; in latin ) , a seri of glass sculptur & ndash ; unrecogniz portrait , without distinct in gender or skin color . these face were cover with differ mask worn dure the pandem . ye , the onli distinct wa that i made 13 adult and five children ( repres my five grandchildren ) , togeth 18 . i chose thi number becaus of it gematria ; the number 18 mean chai & ndash ; & lsquo ; life , & rsquo ; in hebrew . & nbsp ; whi did you want to incorpor a number import in judaism , in a way take away from the univers of thi project ? it wa veri import to me becaus it is a veri power number . each head wa cover with a differ mask . in these mask i put the stori . a mask is a tool of pretens and protect , and it allow introspect . it give a space to reveal or hide the ident and feel . one of them wa transpar , and i call it & lsquo ; read my lip . & rsquo ; but there wa also the isra flag , the venic flag , and a rainbow lgbtq flag mask . & nbsp ; on view in itali , there wa also your sculptur refuge , dedic to peopl who fled their countri across the sea in inhuman condit . a huge unresolv issu of african emigr often lose their live on the way to europ wa express in your power sculptur . i want to show the color of the sky and the sea and , in between , human be . the sea wa their last refug . they were mostli black peopl , so i use the color black and red ( as blood ) . you can see that they are all on the boat , but one is outsid & ndash ; didn & rsquo ; t make it . & nbsp ; you respond to thi tragic realiti with extrem sensit . your latest sculptur are also veri social engag . in decemb 2023 , at a group exhibit & lsquo ; the color of camouflag , & rsquo ; at the periscop galleri in tel aviv , you present two seri of work : & lsquo ; upsid down , & rsquo ; in camouflag militari color , and & lsquo ; new life , & rsquo ; with motif of isra flag in glass , flow in differ shape . in both case , you & rsquo ; ve connect a veri smooth and eleg movement of glass attach to veri simpl and basic metal food can . what wa the idea behind thi concept ? and did you make thi seri of sculptur befor the war or dure the current war ? i start befor the war . dure the war , my feel about it were even stronger . i am veri connect to my grandson , what they do . do they serv in the armi now ? ye , three of them . i am veri proud of them . & nbsp ; so the color came from your grandson ? ye , although not directli . i wa worri , in gener . the flag , at first , were connect to the last year & rsquo ; s demonstr in israel . i want to show the sad of thousand of peopl be with a flag dure the protest . i wa concern about what would be with thi countri and what wa go on . i am still , i am worri . what do think will be with israel ? & nbsp ; the futur will not be easi . but i think that we are veri strong , and we have to be veri strong . & nbsp ; we are talk after mani month of war , and you are wear a & lsquo ; bring them home & rsquo ; necklac [ in solidar with the hostag ] , and you are still say that we are veri strong ? thi is a veri scari and ugli fairi tale . but , of cours , we are veri strong ! otherwis , we & ndash ; you and me & ndash ; would not be here today . so how do you see the futur of israel now , also with the new wave of antisemit around the world ? when i listen to my daughter , tamar and dafna , they are worri . when i listen to my grandson , they are full of life and they believ that everyth will be fine . & nbsp ; whi did you connect flag with simpl can ? they are real can , reus . by ad a flag to them , there is someth new , and mayb there will be someth new in the region , not the same as it wa befor . whatev happen in israel , i express it in my art , both my jewelri and glass sculptur . but the first reason whi i use the can wa practic & ndash ; the metal [ materi ] and it form . then i realiz that i could use differ shape of can , which gave me new feel . when i saw these sculptur at the exhibit , look at the isra flag made of glass , i thought that thi wa zionist art . is it okay to call your art zionist ? i am veri pleas to hear it ! do you think there is a place for someth like zionist art , that the isra artist will want to go in thi direct ? thi is interest , what you are ask . when i look back at the exhibit ( and thi is veri import , to look back and check with yourself what you did ) , i ask myself if it wa onli the obsess of flag . but it wasn & rsquo ; t . in everi piec , i put my feel insid . & nbsp ; how would you name these feel ? new life .■ on april 18 at 7 p . m . , at beit yad labanim cultur center , 2 hamahteret street , ramat hasharon , a group show will open which will includ one of peiper & rsquo ; s new work , view of israel . & nbsp ; the artist & rsquo ; s websit : chenpeiper2 . wixsit . com / chen