the european union hint that isra settlement activ could harm the abraham accord as prime minist [ benjamin ] netanyahu spoke of a possibl declar to legal 46 outpost & quot ; within day & quot ; and the idf advanc plan for 792 settler home . @ @ @ at thi critic junctur for peac in the middl east , these move are & hellip ; counterproduct in light of the posit develop of normal agreement between israel and a number of arab state , & quot ; said the spokesperson for eu foreign affair and secur polici . under the rubric of the trump administr @ @ @ s abraham accord , israel normal tie with the unit arab emir , bahrain , morocco and sudan in exchang for the suspens of plan to annex the settlement . no mention wa made of settlement activ , which ha been a sourc of conflict with the eu and is like to be problem between israel and us presid - elect joe biden who take offic on wednesday . & quot ; the eu ha repeatedli call on israel to end all settlement activ , and to dismantl outpost erect sinc march 2001 , & quot ; the eu spokesperson said . he reiter that settlement activ wa & quot ; contrari to intern law and further undermin the prospect of a viabl two - state solut . & quot ; he also call on israel to suspend an east jerusalem project for new jewish home in givat hamato . the spokesperson for palestinian author presid mahmoud abba said israel @ @ @ s recent settlement move were a slight to biden . thi is a preemptiv attempt to undermin ani effort by the biden @ @ @ s administr to relaunch the stall peac process , spokesperson nabil abu rudeineh said . hi word were report in the palestinian news agenc wafa . rudeineh call for immedi intern action . rudeineh spoke after the higher plan council for judea and samaria met sunday . it agre to the deposit of plan for 415 new home and to the author of 377 unit . the left - wing ngo peac now said that & ldquo ; by promot hundr of settlement unit , prime minist [ benjamin ] netanyahu is onc again put hi person polit interest over those of the countri . not onli will thi settlement activ erod the possibl for a conflict - end resolut with the palestinian in the long - term , but in the short - term it needlessli set israel on a collis cours with the incom biden administr . & rdquo ; the advanc of two of the plan , move two outpost forward in the path toward legal . thi includ deposit of a plan for 96 home in the havat yair outpost , which will becom a new neighborhood of the yakir settlement . in addit , a plan for 94 home in the nofei nechemia outpost wa deposit so that the commun could becom a new neighborhood of the rehelim settlement . & nbsp ; an addit 118 home for that commun were also advanc . samaria region council head yossi dagan call the deposit of plan for the two outpost an & quot ; histor achiev & quot ; and said that it mark the turn point toward their author . the advanc of plan for these two outpost is independ of the overal outpost battl that the yesha council is wage . it ha call for the govern to declar it intent to legal the outpost . plan for 107 news home in the tel menash settlement were also deposit . tel menash is the home commun of terror victim esther horgan , who wa kill while jog in a nearbi forest . her famili had call for addit build in her memori . her husband benjamin particip in the council meet over zoom and thank it member . the higher plan council also gave it approv to plan for 377 settler home . thi includ 66 in oranit , 36 in karnei shomron , 152 in shavei shomron and 123 in itamar . settler reaction wa mute in part becaus focu ha been on the larg outpost battl and becaus the number of settler home advanc is low compar to past meet , when the number of unit advanc were often in the rang of sever thousand .