el al reportedli humili an isra - bedouin polic offic while he wa on an israel advocaci mission to the unit kingdom , accord to isra media . sgt .- maj . ramo salman huzeil , an investig at the segev shalom polic station , reluctantli becam famou on octob 7 . he wa assign to secur at the nova music festiv in the morn shift , arriv at the scene eight minut befor 6 : 30 am , then becam a hero who took the initi , organ an escap vehicl , and , while under fire , made dozen of round of the site of the festiv massacr , save hundr of peopl , whom he move to safeti , onli to return , again and again , save more and more peopl . in the day that follow , the media want to interview him , and hi stori grab headlin in israel and worldwid . follow hi heroism and the public he receiv , he wa sent to london about two week ago as part of an awar campaign for the state of israel to gather support for the call to releas the hostag . the initi wa part of the & ldquo ; israel is & rdquo ; associ , which ha set itself the goal of & ldquo ; creat high - qualiti , genuin , and univers meet & rdquo ; between isra and young peopl worldwid . israel advocaci campaignhuzeil , whose career in the israel polic made him an even more fit ambassador for the countri , wa veri proud of hi role . howev , accord to him , hi elat upon return from thi mission wa cut short by hostil when he receiv what he claim wa a humili secur check befor board el al flight 326 at it connect at the pari airport . & ldquo ; is thi the thank i get ? & rdquo ; he ask . not worthi of respect ? & ldquo ; i return from a mission in which i repres the state of israel , our countri . we met with the jewish commun in england , high - rank , wealthi peopl ; we met with lord and member of parliament ; and in the end , i went through an experi that made me feel second class after they check me as if i were a crimin , as if i am not worthi of respect . & rdquo ; as huzeil , 38 year old and father of three , tell hi stori , hi voic break and tear choke him . & ldquo ; i am an investig in the israel polic . thi appear in their system , and i also show them my id when they ask , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; they put me through an illog examin and ask unnecessari and intrus question , which made me feel like i wa under investig like i wa guilti of someth . it could be that the examin want to embarrass or lower my valu and digniti : i have no other way to explain it . i left there feel terribl , and when i retel it , it bring me back to those moment , and i experi it again . & rdquo ; huzeil said the investig & ldquo ; also refus to identifi herself , but she want to know how mani children i have , what their name are , if i have anoth passport ( i have a swiss one , i show her ) , how long i have known the women in the deleg that i flew back with , where i wa , what i did , etc . & ldquo ; i told her that she wa talk to a polic offic and not a regular citizen , '' he said . `` she didn & rsquo ; t care at all and ask if my big bag had a lock or not ; i wa alreadi annoy by her disdain and also by her treatment of me in a humili manner . if thi is how they treat a polic offic and investig who wa at the nova festiv and save hundr of human live , i don & rsquo ; t know if there is anyth left to say . & ldquo ; the fact is that the two girl who were with me did not go through the same experi and were releas to board the plane veri quickli , & rdquo ; huzeil said . & ldquo ; onli i wa ask disgust question . i & rsquo ; m a polic offic , and they interrog me more than an ordinari citizen . it wa a humili and unnecessari experi . & rdquo ; in respons , el al state that , & ldquo ; first of all , we are veri sorri for the passeng & rsquo ; s feel . the secur screen procedur for passeng is base on secur reason onli , in accord with the guidelin of the author bodi and the profession aviat secur procedur . & ldquo ; we would like to emphas that dure the convers held by the secur repres at the airport with the passeng , no special find or problem came up , and they alway made sure to treat the passeng with respect and courtesi , '' the airlin said . & ldquo ; the isra aviat secur establish and el al are full of appreci and gratitud for the action of mr . huzeil in the event of octob 7 and for hi ongo contribut to the secur of the countri . el al see itself as the airlin of the entir isra societi and will continu to be so in the futur as well . & rdquo ;