prime minist benjamin netanyahu intend to present to the cabinet a new plan for ultra - orthodox ( haredi ) conscript into the idf , just one day ahead of a may 16 deadlin for the state to outlin it plan to the high court of justic ahead of an import hear on june 2 , minist - without - portfolio mk benni gantz reveal in a video statement on saturday even . accord to a report by kan , the prime minist intend to hold a preliminari vote in the cabinet on wednesday in order to includ the plan in the legal file to the high court , so that the court refrain from forc the govern to begin draft all haredi men of militari age . negoti have been ongo in recent week between govern secretari yossi fuch and repres of israel ' s haredi parti in an attempt to reach a compromis , which could then be present to the govern and eventu pass as legisl in the knesset . howev , the side have yet to announc that such a compromis ha been reach . haredi men have enjoy a legal exempt from idf servic sinc israel ' s found . howev , the most recent law enabl the exempt wa rule unconstitut in 2017 , and after mani delay , offici expir on juli 1 , 2023 . the govern gave itself an adjust period to come up with a new plan , but that period end on march 31 , and the state is requir by law to begin draft some 60 , 000 haredi men of militari age into the idf . implic of pass draft exempt & nbsp ; the long - await conscript plan could trigger a polit crisi . on one hand , gantz in hi saturday video statement repeat hi posit that he would not support a bill that will continu to grant sweep exempt to haredi men , and defens minist yoav gallant announc in march that he would not support a plan that did not have gantz ' s back . on the other hand , the haredi parti , who are key partner in netanyahu ' s coalit , have insist that haredi men continu to receiv the option to studi in yeshivot full time , and also have argu that the idf doe not enabl haredim who do serv to maintain their lifestyl . the departur of either gantz ' s nation uniti parti or the two haredi parti ( unit torah judaism and sha ) would like lead to polit instabl and even the govern ' s collaps . ad to thi is the ongo legal case against the govern ' s delay in draft haredi men , and against financi support for militari - age student in yeshivot . the high court on march 28 issu a temporari order to halt the financi support and acknowledg that the state wa requir by law to draft haredim . the hear on june 2 , which will be heard in front of an expand nine - member bench , will debat whether or not to turn the temporari order into a perman one . israel hayom report on saturday even that the govern ' s plan includ a gradual rise over ten year of a minimum amount of haredi drafte per year , with the goal be to eventu draft approxim half of elig drafte everi year ( some 6 , 000 & ndash ; 7 , 000 per year , out of some 13 , 000 student per year ) . these detail could not be independ verifi . plan still exempt approxim half of haredim from idf servicegantz claim in saturday ' s video that the prime minist wa `` act in order to bring a plan that doe not promot fair servic in the state , harm the idf draft and isra secur and resili . '' gantz also critic the time of the prime minist ' s intent to present the plan just two day after remembr day , and accus netanyahu of `` take apart isra societi dure wartim for polit gain . '' fuch , who is facilit the negoti between the involv parti , refut gantz ' s claim . in a post on x , he accus gantz of act divis and of critic a plan that ha yet to be present in full . it appear that gantz ' s critic of netanyahu ' s bill address the crisi of haredi exempt / integr into the idf wa less base on have thoroughli review the prime minist ' s latest propos , as much as the fact that netanyahu ha consist avoid dialogu on the issu with gantz along the live of a major reform . comment by netanyahu ' s cabinet secretari also indic that the new bill could draw out ani solut over a decad , a time period usual view as make a reform irrelev in polit term sinc there will be addit elect befor anyth seriou would chang . in contrast to gantz , gallant ha fallen silent in recent day . hi posit is that he tri in the recent past to shoot down netanyahu ' s bill which wa tri to repackag an ongo exempt in practic as a real reform of integr haredim into the idf , but that at thi point he can not singl - handedli stop it . furthermor , if expect are rise for gantz to quit the govern over the issu of haredim serv in the idf , gallant ha made it clear that even if he oppos netanyahu ' s bill , he will not quit . the defens minist believ that hi valu as the `` adult in the room `` in the current govern in which he view netanyahu as often be push around by nation secur minist itamar ben gvir and financ minist betzalel smotrich , who are less experienc in world affair , is more import than ani statement he might make by resign , given that the govern would still continu . it is also still alway possibl that four more likud member could join gallant to block passag of the bill , but there are no sign that the defens minist ha succeed in gather such number .