the name of five idf reservist kill in action in the ongo war against hama in gaza were clear for public saturday night . the five soldier , most of whom serv in the 551st brigad , are name as follow : maj . ( re . ) mosh yedidyah leiterwarr . ofc . ( re . ) yossi hershkovitzst .- sgt .- maj . ( re . ) matan meirst .- sgt .- maj . ( re . ) sergey shmerkinst .- sgt .- maj . ( re . ) netanel `` nati `` harushwho were the idf soldier kill fight hama in gaza ? leiter , hershkovitz , meir , and shmerkin were all reservist serv as part of the 551st brigad . harush serv in the givati brigad . hershkovitz wa the princip of the ort pelech school for boy in jerusalem . hi death wa confirm by the school in a statement releas saturday night . '' yossi wa a man of kind and truth , of famili and commun , and of educ in everi fiber of hi be , who taught hundr of the citi ' s children , '' jerusalem mayor mosh lion said . הצטערתי מאוד לשמוע על נפילתם של יוסי הרשקוביץ ז `` ל שנהרג יחד עם עוד 4 גיבורי ישראל , בקרבות הקשים בצפון רצועת עזה . יוסי היה מנהל תיכון אורט פלך בנים בירושלים , איש חינוך מוכר ואהוב שנתן השראה למוריו ולתלמידים . את כל מרצו השקיע בתפקידו כמנהל בית ספר וכאיש חינוך מהמעלה הראשונה . & hellip ; pic . twitter . com / tul79xifv & mdash ; יואב קיש yoav kisch ( @ yoavkisch ) novemb 11 , 2023educ minist yoav kisch prais him as a `` belov educ who inspir hi teacher and student . '' take to x , kisch said that hershkovitz `` invest all hi energi into hi posit as a school princip and a first - rate educ . '' he continu : `` the entir educ system is in pain and mourn hi death , and will help hi famili with whatev is need . '' shmerkin ' s death wa confirm in a statement by the kiryat shmona municip . leiter ' s death wa mourn by ariel elimelech , the head of the settlement eli where hi parent live . '' the late mosh yedidyah wa a soldier who gave a lot to the countri ' s secur and die for it , '' he said , compar hi fate to that of the biblic book of job . & nbsp ; '' chani and hillel , mosh ' s parent , are pillar of the commun . thousand of eli resid mourn hi untim death . the nation of israel ha lost one of it best . '' הערב משפחת פאודה התבשרה , שחבר צוות ההפקה של הסדרה , רס ״ ר ( מיל ׳ ) מתן מאיר בן 38 , מאודם , לוחם בגדוד 697 , חטיבה 551 ( עוצבת חצי האש ) , נפל בקרב בצפון רצועת עזה . יהי זכרו ברוך . pic . twitter . com / kjkkps9aoq & mdash ; avi issacharoff ( @ issacharoff ) novemb 11 , 2023meir ' s death wa eulog by avi issacharrof , creator of the hit seri fauda , on which he work as a product assist . thi is a develop stori . the jerusalem post and onefamili are work togeth to help support the victim of the hama massacr and the soldier of israel who have been draft to ensur that it never happen again . becom a partner in thi project by donat to onefamili & gt ; & gt ;