as a global innov powerhous , israel is activ integr cut - edg artifici intellig ( ai ) technolog across all facet of societi , recogn the vital import of these advanc . & ldquo ; ai will lead to unimagin transform at all level and impact everi aspect of our live and the live of futur gener . thi is the next industri revolut , & rdquo ; state presid isaac herzog . but doe thi avant - gard spirit extend to the creativ realm , where gener art offer a captiv glimps into the fusion of human ingenu and machin intellig ? on the screen , digit dream come aliv with lush veget , ephemer flower , and flow water . thi is the ai - creat world of & ldquo ; botan reveri & rdquo ; by ronen tanchum , an isra artist work at the forefront of technolog . & ldquo ; my aim is for audienc to feel my artwork and engag with it on a deep emot level , & rdquo ; say ronen . inspir by natur , he use gener algorithm to explor new aesthet territori that exist on the boundari between the natur and the imagin . ai allow us to take a fresh look at familiar imag , reveal unexpect facet of beauti . & ldquo ; my work pulsat with theme of synthet natur , bloom phenomena , and digit - human synchroni , explor the human - machin - environ relationship , & rdquo ; tanchum said . contemporari artist are increasingli experi with gener techniqu , bring their boldest creativ idea to life . but how doe thi art of the futur work ? algorithm train on vast dataset can creat imag , video , and even music in respons to textual prompt or visual exampl . util complex mathemat model , neural network identifi pattern and gener content that align with user - defin paramet . then , with addit command , human edit the gener imag until the desir result is achiev . in thi process , the artist becom a kind of conductor , guid the machin & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; creativ & rdquo ; effort . london - base isra photograph ori gersht demonstr how ai can expand the express possibl of tradit media in hi project & ldquo ; field & amp ; vision & amp ; ( anoth world ) . & rdquo ; when process hi own photograph , the artist invit the neural network to reinterpret and liter & ldquo ; build upon & rdquo ; the origin imag & ndash ; now , they balanc on the edg of photographi and digit paint . & ldquo ; the combin of the precis trace of the optic len in harmoni with the computer interpret of artifici intellig captur a shift in our concept of realiti , as these photograph are no longer a faith depict of the physic subject matter , & rdquo ; comment gersht . with thi experi , the artist transform the veri natur of photographi , lead the viewer into a space of imagin . the ethic ramif of ai artof cours , it & rsquo ; s not so straightforward . in israel , as around the world , there is an extens public discuss surround gener art . it & rsquo ; s question whether it can be consid genuin art if a substanti portion of the work is done by a machin rather than a human . while divers of approach and freedom of express are hallmark of isra art & ndash ; just as they are of it societi as a whole & ndash ; a major of isra artist continu to work success with tradit fine art materi . guy yanai , an isra painter well - establish on the intern art scene , told the jerusalem post that he doe not use ai tool in hi art . at the same time , he note that everi industri revolut ha a benefici impact on the evolut of art , push the boundari of creativ explor and open up new dimens of creativ . expert also point out that gener art challeng the establish understand of the creativ process and the veri concept of an artwork . & ldquo ; i view gener art as a new method that may complement other contemporari as well as tradit practic , & rdquo ; irena gordon , chief curat of the petah tikva museum said . & ldquo ; while it is excit as a start point , in the end it is up to the artist to use it to creat good and meaning art . & rdquo ; the integr of ai into the artist sphere rais a number of import ethic and legal question . who is the author of a work creat by an algorithm ? how do we assess the authent and valu of such art ? particularli heat discuss revolv around copyright for gener content and privaci issu when algorithm process person data . israel & rsquo ; s recent adopt & ldquo ; respons innov & rdquo ; polici for ai regul , aim at find a balanc between technolog progress , ethic norm , and public interest , is intend to serv as a guid for the integr of ai , includ in the creativ industri . & ldquo ; the revolutionari impact of ai technolog is yield constant improv in the qualiti of life for israel & rsquo ; s citizen in countless field . howev , along with the numer benefit , there are also mani risk . we must ensur that the human remain at the center of ai develop , & rdquo ; said innov , scienc and technolog minist ofir akuni . howev , it would be incorrect to claim that ai ha complet and suddenli taken over art in israel . rather , it ha complement the extens list of tool in the arsen of contemporari artist . digit art in israel encompass a wide rang of technolog , demonstr the open of local artist to innov and experiment , from 3d model , vr , and ar to gener graphic , anim , and more . these media often intersect and overlap in the practic of artist , creat complex artist statement in the languag of contemporari techno - cultur . thi is the languag in which ruth patir , repres israel at thi year & rsquo ; s venic biennal , also express herself . her project & ldquo ; ( m ) otherland & rdquo ; master combin documentari narr with advanc comput - gener imageri ( cgi ) technolog . in her work , the artist use 3d anim to convey her idea to a digit - age audienc in a languag most understand to them . & ldquo ; for me , creat work that expand the vocabulari of the digit asset ha becom someth i wa realli eager to fight for , & rdquo ; patir said , note , & ldquo ; my practic doesn & rsquo ; t focu on technolog , it is onli a facad of whatev is the contemporari moment we are live . & rdquo ; creativ experi with technolog are also reson in the local art market . galleri and collector , primarili of the younger gener , are show increas interest in new media . the first auction sale of nft work by isra artist took place in 2022 at tiroch auction in herzliya , with lot sell for record amount for thi segment , reach the upper estim . sale of digit art on the secondari market indic the success integr of thi genr into the commerci context . lead cultur institut in israel are gradual includ gener art along with other digit art in their exhibit and educ program . howev , it should be note that these are still onli tent attempt , and truli larg - scale exhibit project explor the theme of ai are still ahead for isra . it is equal crucial to discuss the challeng . vladimir opredelenov , a lead expert on digit for creativ industri , warn the jerusalem post about the risk of fall behind technolog progress : & ldquo ; cultur institut need to chang their mindset and implement innov solut to avoid find themselv in a kind of & lsquo ; blackout . & rsquo ; if they do not becom part of the global digit ecosystem , they risk lose relev and audienc in the era of intellig machin . museum must activ studi and appli ai technolog in their work & ndash ; from curat and research to collect manag and visitor engag . & rdquo ; moreov , the integr of ai into artist practic requir art profession to continu improv their digit literaci and master new technolog tool . to effect leverag the capabl of ai for creativ , analysi , curat , and audienc engag , employe of museum , galleri , and other cultur institut need to activ develop digit compet , and stay up - to - date with the latest technolog trend . ai also open up previous unseen opportun , particularli in the realm of preserv histor memori and cultur heritag . algorithm can effici analyz vast amount of digit archiv data , systemat it , extract valuabl inform , and even aid in reconstruct lost artifact . at yad vashem museum , ai technolog are use to process million of document , identifi holocaust victim , and creat instal that immers visitor in the context of histor event . & ldquo ; ai is not just anoth technolog trend , it is a fundament shift that will affect everi aspect of our live , & rdquo ; lead world expert in ai and co - founder of navan ilan twig said . & ldquo ; thi technolog ha alreadi firmli enter our live and will onli develop further . it is import for the art commun to embrac these chang and learn to har the potenti of ai in the most product way . & rdquo ;