& ldquo ; i play sport ever sinc i wa a child . i use to play soccer but mainli basketbal , as i have been bless with a height of 1 . 95 meter , & rdquo ; said saleh shaheen , 41 , a druze paralymp athlet from shfaram . shaheen & rsquo ; s life began in a typic fashion . he enlist in the idf in 2003 as a paratroop and also serv as a command . after hi mandatori servic , he enrol in a cours led by the airport author and work at the karni termin on the border of the gaza strip as a secur guard . & ldquo ; then , on januari 13 , 2005 , my life chang in just one night . & rdquo ; three terrorist from hama , the pflp , and the al - aqsa martyr brigad penetr the karni termin by plant an explos devic in the wall ; they kill six civilian . & ldquo ; i arriv at the area of the explos to fight the terrorist , but it wa pitch dark , as electr wa down due to the explos , leav me expos . i face the first terrorist , and we exchang fire . he shot four bullet toward my left leg , also damag my stomach and intestin , & rdquo ; shaheen said . & ldquo ; it wa pretti seriou damag , though i didn & rsquo ; t feel at all that i wa injur . i shot , and the terrorist and i fell togeth . two other terrorist infiltr , and the rest of the secur guard arriv . there i wa , with a dead terrorist lie next to me and an exchang of fire take place between the guard and the terrorist over my head . i manag , with my last bit of strength , to crawl and make it to safeti , where anoth druze secur guard saw me . he tri to lift me , but i weigh 115 kilo , so it took him two or three more attempt until he manag and brought me to the back offic . & ldquo ; they put me in an ambul and sped to soroka [ hospit ] . i rememb the ride ; it & rsquo ; s probabl the longest one i & rsquo ; ve ever had in my life . i start to feel the pain . i want to fall asleep , but the medic wouldn & rsquo ; t let me . when the ambul door open , i put my hand over my face so that no one would recogn me , and there & rsquo ; s a famou pictur show that scene . i wa in the oper room for 17 hour straight . when i woke up , i saw my parent next to me and began to fathom what had happen . i tore a main arteri in my leg , and somehow , i stay aliv . & rdquo ; shaheen stay for three more week in soroka until hi situat wa stabil , and then he wa sent to rambam in haifa , which wa more conveni for hi famili . & ldquo ; i spent three challeng month at rambam , and although mani peopl came to visit , it wasn & rsquo ; t a particularli easi time for me . i got metal implant for my leg , and i need to train to rehabilit them so i could attempt to go back to sport . my entir life revolv around sport until that point , & rdquo ; he reminisc . first step in paralymp sport an acquaint approach shaheen a littl over five year ago and suggest he tri wheelchair basketbal . & ldquo ; it seem unnatur to me at first , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; i tri and fell sever time and end up think that i don & rsquo ; t have the strength for more fall and injuri and recov . at end of the day , i had learn to accept my injuri and look at it as my fate . i told myself that i must get up ; i can & rsquo ; t stay in the same place . so i continu train and play wheelchair basketbal in haifa and tel aviv , and even tri out wheelchair badminton . & rdquo ; shaheen end up join a mix jewish - arab group in majd al - kroum in the north , win a nation cup in the first year and make it to the premier leagu . in 2019 , shaheen wa approach again , thi time with an offer to join paralymp row . & ldquo ; i had no idea what it wa at first . i wa told that it involv two train session everi day and much travel , & rdquo ; he recount . & ldquo ; i hesit at first , but i saw the challeng aspect and took my abil to the limit , and decid that thi is a sport i want to be a part of . & rdquo ; shaheen start train with a group of four , but then the condit of hi leg deterior . the implant fell out , and he wa hospit again & ndash ; until he wa classifi as pr2 , which is defin as have function use of arm and trunk but with weak or absenc of leg function to slide the seat of the boat , row on a doubl boat for a duo of a man and a woman . & ldquo ; when i start thi classif , they were onli miss a femal rower , and i wa on hold for a while . then , one day , i receiv a call say that they found a young woman , shahar milfeld , who had cancer at the age of 16 and had to have part of her pelvi remov . i jump right in and went back to row . & rdquo ; shaheen and milfeld began train togeth onli two year ago . & ldquo ; everi day , i drive around 230 kilomet , wake up at five in the morn , perform two train session , and go back . thi routin is veri demand , especi at the expens of famili and work . i own a conveni store and had to hire a local employe so that i could be devot to sport alon , & rdquo ; shaheen explain . support by scholarship and aid from the israel paralymp committe , shaheen and milfeld made a signific leap and advanc to the world championship less than a year ago . there , they miss the chanc to get a ticket to the paralymp game due to some chang in categori for qualif . & ldquo ; we miss the ticket by 30 hundredth of a second and even came in first place in the second round ; we were realli bum . then , two week ago , there wa a & lsquo ; last chanc & rsquo ; competit for the last two ticket . peopl believ in us ; we arriv as prepar as we could be . then we finish first in the first round , and in the second one , we finish second with a differ of 40 hundredth of a second . & rdquo ; thi wa enough to send the duo to the paralymp game . & ldquo ; i wa liter in tear , & rdquo ; said shaheen . & ldquo ; now we are get back to prepar for the olymp . next month , we will fli for a long train camp , and then in august , we will move to pari to give our perform at the olymp . i want to thank the paralymp associ for it trust and support in all field , from nutrit to treatment , scholarship , and even travel reimburs . & rdquo ; back at home , shaheen said that hi commun had bare heard of thi branch of sport . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s not realli well known in my societi . not mani peopl at home contact me , except the sport depart in the municip . truth be told , i myself didn & rsquo ; t know anyth about it befor i start , and i didn & rsquo ; t realiz how fascin and challeng the world of row can be . & rdquo ; for thi reason , shaheen said he hope to chang thing in the futur . & ldquo ; hope , after the olymp , i will work to promot row in israel gener and in the north more specif , & rdquo ; he said . ask what he is look forward to most , shaheen said that , more than anyth , he is excit to leav a mark in histori . & ldquo ; my messag is that to achiev your dream , you must stop everyth and focu on the goal . it & rsquo ; s true that i had to put my busi to the side and that it come at the expens of other thing . but thi is what it take to make your dream come true . & rdquo ;