israel is today a polar societi , but special event like holocaust remembr day eas thi divis due to , in part , an increas in feel of sad and underscor the pivot role of memori day in temporarili reduc societ divis and safeguard cohes . these were the find of a new studi by research at the hebrew univers of jerusalem ( hu ) led by doctor student tamar gur and colleagu , under the guidanc of psycholog prof . eran halperin . it delv into the emot dynam surround thi day mark on monday thi year that detect a substanti declin in & ldquo ; affect polar dure the commemor . & rdquo ; they publish their paper in the journal polit psycholog under the titl & ldquo ; a group that griev togeth stay togeth : examin the impact of holocaust memori day in israel on affect polar . & rdquo ; affect polar is defin as the tendenc to dislik , distrust , and maintain hostil attitud toward support of other polit parti or ideolog . in it extrem form , affect polar may pose a sever threat to these group & rsquo ; cohes , function , and exist . relat between memori day and unityth associ between memori day and nation uniti ha long been recogn . in poignant speech deliv dure these commemor , there & rsquo ; s alway a power call for uniti , underscor a common ident and share commit to the memori of a collect histori . against the backdrop of polar that ha beset israel sinc januari 2023 & ndash ; character by grow divid among group with ident nation ident & ndash ; the need to strengthen these bond of common ident is vital , the research said . research ha shown that the jewish public is veri involv in and move by holocaust remembr day : in one survey , 93 % of them report stand at attent in honor of the fallen dure the commemor siren . the studi examin the effect of memori day on emot respons and their potenti role in mitig affect polar . affect polar , defin as the tendenc to harbor neg attitud and hostil toward support of oppos polit ideolog , pose a grave threat to societ cohes and function . the studi wa base on extens survey of particip , gaug their feel and attitud befor , dure , and after the day of remembr . the result show that the preval sad associ with the day significantli decreas polar of mood and feel that often manifest as distrust or hostil toward those with differ polit or ideolog view . & ldquo ; out of the great crisi we grew , becam stronger , and establish a gloriou countri , and we should not take thi for grant , & rdquo ; said rosa bloch , a speaker at a holocaust remembr day event three year ago . & ldquo ; as a woman who love peopl , i will add and say that i call for uniti of the nation . & lsquo ; love your neighbor as yourself & rsquo ; is a principl that should be with us everi day , everi hour , becaus our strength is in our uniti . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; memori day serv as a remind of our share human and collect respons toward preserv the memori of our past , & rdquo ; gur comment . & ldquo ; our find underscor the pivot role of sad in temporarili reduc affect polar and safeguard societ cohes . & rdquo ; they said that despit it limit , thi research hold far - reach implic . & ldquo ; sad , though often deem an unpleas emot , offer substanti person and group advantag in specif context . memori day exemplifi how nation group can har the power of sad to bolster cohes and preserv group integr . & rdquo ; thi profound impact on societ cohes underscor the import of collect memori in heal nation wound and build a resili commun , the team conclud . & ldquo ; it highlight how remembr and share grief can serv as power catalyst for social solidar , promot a more harmoni coexist among variou social group . & rdquo ; & nbsp ;