the famili of a 21 - year - old man who the lebanes author say wa kill by isra fire when he and a group of other tri to cross the border fenc with israel held hi funer on saturday , a day after he die . the idf identifi a group of protest who left object near the border that they suspect were explos devic . three suspect cut the border fenc and cross into israel where they were join by anoth four suspect ; they then start a fire insid isra territori , which spread to lebanes territori . & ldquo ; the behavior of the suspect indic that they were plan to commit a terror attack in metulla , & rdquo ; the militari said in a statement . dure the event , the idf shot one suspect identifi by hezbollah & rsquo ; s news outlet al - manar as mohammad tahhan in the leg . he wa identifi by the idf as a hezbollah member . the incid took place dure a protest on the lebanes side to support palestinian , amid a conflict between israel and hama , the islamist group which rule gaza . and the event came a day after three rocket were fire from southern lebanon , land in the sea off of the northern coast of israel . hezbollah distanc itself from the rocket fire ; it is believ that a palestinian group fire the rocket . member of hi famili , dress in black and wear face mask to prevent the spread of the coronaviru , gather around the coffin of moham tahan in hi home town of adloun , in southern lebanon , to bid farewel , reuter imag show . a larg poster at the mourn ceremoni wa emblazon with hi pictur , alongsid a symbol of the iranian - back lebanes group hezbollah , which is a staunch oppon of israel . the poster carri the word : & quot ; on the way to al - qud ( jerusalem ) . & quot ; protest gather again on lebanon side of border with israel on saturday , wave palestinian and hezbollah flag . the lebanes armi deploy in the area , set up cordon to prevent protest approach a border wall that run along that stretch of the boundari , although some protest still manag move up close . unifil , the un peacekeep forc in lebanon that monitor the boundari with israel , said on friday it had launch an immedi investig into the incid . anna ahronheim contribut to thi report .