sinc the outbreak of war between ukrain and russia on februari 24 , 2022 , a stagger 83 , 198 olim from russia have sought refug in israel , as report by the ministri of aliyah and integr . accord to the israel central bureau of statist , thi influx is part of a broader pattern that ha seen approxim 1 . 3 million russian speaker settl in israel , make up 15 % of the nation ' s popul & mdash ; a demograph that includ those from other post - soviet state . howev , the transit to isra life ha not been seamless for mani . struggl with cultur and religi assimil , these newcom often experi profound isol and loneli . as their adjust hurdl persist well into their second year , the urgenc to address their integr challeng becom increasingli appar . for more stori from the media line , go to themedialin . org . to gain insight into their situat , the media line recent spoke to rabbi binyamin minich , a russian `` war aliyah `` expert from the daniel commun in jaffa who frequent interact with new isra citizen from the post - soviet region . '' sure , repatri from the post - soviet space encount difficulti integr into israel . although everyon ha ' return home , ' the immigr crisi remain . peopl find it difficult from a financi point of view . first and foremost , everyon want to eat , not to pray . then come the crisi of cultur and languag , '' admit rabbi minich . '' it ' s imposs to be fulli isra without be born here . and therefor , the crisi will alway exist , '' he add . the rabbi call the current weak in integr russian repatri a failur of the multicultur approach . `` peopl think that becaus there is a huge russian - speak diaspora here , they can settl without much effort . thi is not the case . despit israel ' s liber , there are cultur and religi code here , even among the most secular citizen , '' note minich . challeng russian immigr face in israeldasha shkolnikova , a 28 - year - old russian immigr , speak about the difficulti mani face while integr into isra societi . '' a fundament mistak that mani make is close themselv off . israel is not the right kind of countri for that . you have to go out and social ; everyth here is design for you alway to be outsid . nobodi stay at home , and that ' s the cultur , '' say shkolnikova . '' mani peopl from russia left involuntarili , and in their mind , it ' s ' i fled . ' they onli commun with russian , & rdquo ; she add , & ldquo ; and it turn into a real bat yam ( an isra citi popular among russian ) , almost a ghetto . & rdquo ; journalist ilya egorov echo that experi . `` i liter fled to israel with just one suitcas becaus i wa on a busi trip . then i somehow manag to get the document transfer and repatri . `` & nbsp ; '' i rent some apart and just close myself off on the balconi everi day , open zoom , and commun with my colleagu and friend who remain in russia . honestli , apart from one busi trip , i haven ' t even been to jerusalem , '' admit egorov . in addit , mani immigr from the post - soviet space feel nostalg for their countri of origin . russian may feel their ident and cultur are be threaten . '' there ' s a huge layer of russian shop and event here , & rdquo ; say shkolnikova . & ldquo ; you can find basic everyth . but mani thing feel unfamiliar here becaus it ' s the east . for exampl , everyon here is veri tactil , and for someon from the post - soviet space , thi is veri unusu . '' '' i feel that thi life & mdash ; as if it ' s not mine , and mine stay in russia , & rdquo ; egorov add . & ldquo ; i can beat my chest and shout , i ' m jewish , i ' m isra , but i ' m onli isra becaus i have a passport . '' at the same time , he want to learn the languag and feel like an isra . egorov admir the isra mental and the resili of peopl in the face of difficulti and war . `` nowaday , i keenli feel antisemit in the world , and i believ i have the right to say that it directli affect me too , '' he say . rabbi minich explain that the jewish self - awar of mani repatri chang after move to israel , which make their integr harder . '' perhap in the countri of origin , they felt like jew , and no one object to that , but in israel , they are remind that they are not by matrilin descent , and therefor - ' not truli jewish , ' '' say minich . hi word are confirm by polina altzits , a 25 - year - old languag teacher who wa repatri to israel from russia in april 2022 due to the start of the war in ukrain . '' although i have jewish root , no one in my famili support jewish tradit at all , unfortun . we didn ' t talk about it . i alway knew my grandfath wa jewish , but we never emphas that , '' she explain . '' i see strong discrimin here against those who aren ' t jew , accord to halacha ( biblic law in judaism ) . it greatli upset and anger me . i don ' t understand what the problem is . whi , for exampl , can ' t you get marri without some certif state that your mother is jewish ? i face thi when i start date my boyfriend , and it ' s been difficult for me , '' confess polina . '' it ' s a secular but , at the same time , veri religi countri . when it come to famili , tradit , and everyth els , i clearli feel a lack of knowledg becaus my famili is not entir jewish , & rdquo ; say shkolnikova . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; you must get use to the tradit and understand them , & rdquo ; she add thought . & ldquo ; live in a differ world , you can not cut yourself off from it and continu to live as if you were in russia . whi are you here if you do so ? '' rabbi minich share that besid be liber , hi commun is also multilingu and multipolit , where not onli jew of matrilin descent but also children , grandchildren , and spous of jew are welcom . '' i believ less in the concept of russian - speak synagogu becaus , ultim , i think it ' s imposs to avoid the side effect of ghettoiz . therefor , my commun is complet isra ; they speak six differ languag , '' minich share . repatri also emphas the import of languag . '' i immedi enrol in ulpan ( hebrew languag school ) ; i just knew it wa necessari . languag is the dna of a peopl and cultur . if you don ' t have the languag , assimil will be much harder for you , '' say shkolnikova . ulpan is a big step but not alway a complet solut . `` nineti percent of my surround remain russian - speak , & rdquo ; say alzits . that ' s whi hebrew is so difficult for me . the problem is that i still can ' t fulli accept that i need the languag . i can ' t say i ' ve complet abandon my past and understand of myself as russian . & rdquo ; minich believ that despit all the difficulti , those repatri who stay in israel will significantli contribut to the develop of isra societi . '' israel is a complex countri , and live here isn ' t easi . those who are comfort in israel ultim dedic themselv to the countri and make it better , '' he say . '' immigr is alway challeng . and the least we can do for those who have just arriv is to help them feel at home , '' minich conclud .