palestinian faction in the gaza strip have threaten to implement a gradual escal against israel if their demand are not met concern reconstruct and the blockad on the strip , complain that egypt is deliber delay the reconstruct process , accord to arab media . sourc from the faction told the hezbollah - affili al - mayadeen on monday that the egyptian did not respond to a posit paper present by hama recent , claim that egypt is deliber delay the reconstruct process in the coastal enclav . the sourc warn that hama and the other faction in gaza have set a deadlin for the end of thi year and would begin a gradual escal start next week . the sourc ad that egypt refus the entri of a larg hama deleg which wa schedul to visit cairo at the end of novemb . a `` lead sourc `` in hama told al - jazeera on monday that the movement is studi option for an escal with israel , also express `` strong dissatisfact `` with egypt ' s behavior , say that it ha been reluct in implement it promis to gaza . the sourc , point to what they call isra attack on al - aqsa mosqu and the tighten of measur against palestinian prison , warn that thi would `` explod the situat . '' the hama sourc also claim that egypt ha been prevent thousand of peopl from leav the gaza strip without reason . `` egypt ' s behavior is consid an abandon of it commit to compel israel in return for the resist ' s commit to the truce , '' the sourc told al - jazeera . on tuesday , hama member suhail al - hindi told the palestinian al - ayyam news that the faction could no longer accept the tighten of the blockad on gaza and the prevent of reconstruct , warn that they would not remain silent for long . unlik the al - jazeera and al - mayadeen report , al - hindi told al - ayyam that egypt had made great effort as a mediat to resolv the variou issu . the hama offici stress that the faction would `` have their say `` in the come day . addit on tuesday , palestinian media report that the faction in gaza had warn against israel ' s procrastin in lift the sieg on gaza , call on mediat to assum their respons `` befor it is too late . '' the report indic that the `` gradual escal `` would like begin with measur refer to as `` popular resist , '' usual refer to incendiari and explos balloon , as well as riot and demonstr along the gaza border . the situat between gaza and israel ha remain rel calm sinc oper guardian of the wall in may , except for a spike in clash which took place in august . despit the claim that egypt is hold up reconstruct effort , it sign agreement with qatar to suppli fuel and basic build materi to the gaza strip in novemb . the express of disappoint with egypt come two week after palestinian islam jihad secretari - gener ziyad al - nakhlah attack hama for accept and facilit econom aid approv by israel , say the aid provid by egypt to gaza wa an attempt by israel to `` tame gaza `` with econom incent . '' the resist should not play the role of an agent in facilit the work of citizen within the isra entiti , '' stress the pij leader in an interview with al - mayadeen . `` israel want to turn the west bank and gaza into warehous for worker , and thi is someth we do not accept . '' israel consid gaza a time bomb that it want to dismantl , and the new facil come within thi framework , '' he said . `` everyon in the region is bet that the resist will becom afraid for privileg and facil and will not enter into a war . '' deleg from both hama and the pij held talk with egypt ' s intellig minist maj .- gen . abba kamel in cairo in octob , discuss effort to reach an extend ceasefir and prison swap . mix report from the past few month have claim both that signific progress wa made on these two issu and that littl to no progress had been made .