egypt , qatar , the unit nation and other intern parti are make signific effort to prevent & nbsp ; anoth militari confront & nbsp ; between israel and the palestinian faction in the gaza strip . on friday , israel announc for the first time in 18 month that it will allow merchant and businessmen from the gaza strip to enter through the erez cross . the announc came after the rel calm on the gaza - israel border dure which no balloon or incendiari devic were launch toward israel . hama sourc said that the mediat effort were be made due to israel & rsquo ; s insist on link reconstruct of the gaza strip to a prison exchang . hama ha been hold the bodi of idf soldier oron shaul and hadar goldin sinc 2014 , and is hold isra citizen avner mengistu and hisham al - say , who enter the gaza strip on their own in 2014 and 2015 respect . the sourc told the palestinian daili al - qud that mediat from egypt , qatar , the un and the european union are work to avoid anoth flare - up of hostil between the gaza - base faction and israel . sever faction warn over the weekend that failur to move forward with reconstruct would lead to anoth militari confront with israel . accord to the sourc , the faction met in recent day and discuss set an ultimatum to israel in the event that there is no breakthrough in the reconstruct issu , as well as the eas of restrict impos on the gaza strip . & ldquo ; the come day will be decis in thi regard , and the resist faction will not accept anyth less than the fulfil of their demand , & rdquo ; the sourc said . & ldquo ; the mediat ask hama and the other faction to give them more time to achiev a breakthrough on these issu , includ a possibl prison exchang and a long - term truce with israel . & rdquo ; in addit to merchant , all gazan good can now enter israel for the first time sinc the end of may & rsquo ; s 11 - day gaza war , the coordin of govern activ in the territori ( cogat ) maj .- gen . ghassan alian announc . the list of item that can enter gaza from israel at kerem shalom & rsquo ; s commerci cross also expand to includ item use for transport and commun . equip and good for gaza & rsquo ; s humanitarian infrastructur , such as for the water and sewag system , can also enter . senior hama offici & nbsp ; osama & nbsp ; hamdan & nbsp ; said on saturday that egypt wa continu it effort to prevent anoth militari confront with israel . hamdan warn that the gaza faction would not wait too long for a solut regard the eas of the restrict and the reconstruct of the hous destroy dure the 11 - day war in may . the faction are also demand a solut to the issu of the qatari cash grant to the strip . they accus the palestinian author of hinder reconstruct and the deliveri of the qatari financi aid to more than 100 , 000 famili . earlier thi month , a palestinian offici said that the pa and qatar had reach an agreement on the transfer of the fund through the palestinian monetari fund but palestinian bank are refus to cooper for fear that they could be expos to lawsuit on the ground of support and fund terror . azzam al - ahm , a senior member of the fatah central committe , claim that israel , and not the pa , wa respons for the delay of the deliveri of the qatari fund , & ldquo ; the palestinian govern sign an agreement in order to coordin the disburs of the fund in the gaza strip , which were previous transfer through the isra mossad , & rdquo ; ahm said in a radio interview . he claim that israel reject the agreement , & ldquo ; becaus of it desir to take over the task of deliv the qatari grant fund . & rdquo ; contact are underway between the palestinian author , qatar and egypt to resolv the issu , ahm ad . he deni charg that the pa wa obstruct the reconstruct of the gaza strip . he stress that reconstruct will onli take place through the pa govern head by prime minist moham shtayyeh . ahm said that there will be no reconstruct of the gaza strip until the split between the west bank and gaza strip end . & ldquo ; there will be no reconstruct without achiev uniti and end the divis , & rdquo ; he emphas . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; the head of the palestinian gener feder of trade union in the gaza strip , sami al - amsi , accus the pa of obstruct the transfer of the qatari fund . he also accus the pa of impos a sieg and sanction on the resid of the gaza strip . & ldquo ; the palestinian author is drag it feet , becaus it want to increas the pressur on peopl in the gaza strip and impos more sanction on them , & rdquo ; amsi said . & ldquo ; the palestinian author is punish the son of fatah befor hama . & rdquo ; comment on israel & rsquo ; s decis to allow the entri of palestinian merchant and businessmen from the gaza strip into israel , amsi said the move came becaus of israel & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; fear of the respons of the palestinian resist faction . & rdquo ; israel , he ad , & ldquo ; is an enemi that onli understand the languag of forc . & rdquo ; tovah lazaroff contribut to thi report .