the tension and clash in jerusalem , particularli the video from friday night show isra polic in al - aqsa mosqu , have led to the first condemn of israel from the countri & rsquo ; s new gulf partner . & nbsp ; bahrain condemn isra forc for the & ldquo ; attack on worship at al - aqsa mosqu . & rdquo ; the uae ha call on israel to de - escal tension in jerusalem and sheikh jarrah . & nbsp ; bahrain also ha been concern about the evict of palestinian from sheikh jarrah . it doesn & rsquo ; t want the peac process or stabil in the region undermin , and it want provoc to stop . it want tension reduc as ramadan conclud after a difficult month of clash . & nbsp ; the statement came as saudi arabia said it & ldquo ; reject israel & rsquo ; s plan and measur to evict dozen of palestinian from their home in jerusalem and impos isra sovereignti over them . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; the triumvir of saudi arabia , bahrain and the uae is import becaus it is larg accept that riyadh gave the green light to manama and abu dhabi to make peac last year . the emir went first , for variou reason , even though bahrain had long consid a peac deal and wa push coexist for year . & nbsp ; the uae made the first unpreced flight with humanitarian aid dure covid - 19 in the spring of 2020 . then it ambassador to washington , yousef al - otaiba , wrote an op - ed in yediot aharonot . peac follow soon after as prime minist benjamin netanyahu back down from & ldquo ; annex & rdquo ; of the west bank . & nbsp ; howev , the peac deal , which move quickli in august and septemb , hit some hurdl . there were question about f - 35 sale , and us presid donald trump lost the elect in the us . thi took the wind out of the sail of saudi arabia & rsquo ; s consider and of sever other countri that might have jump on the peac wagon . & nbsp ; there were consider about reconcili after year in which countri had a transact relationship with the trump administr . under trump , washington had signal that human right were not an issu . there wa no pressur on israel regard palestinian issu . on the contrari , there wa a & ldquo ; peac to prosper & rdquo ; plan . & nbsp ; the plan wa unveil on januari 27 , 2020 , but aspect of it had been push in 2019 . the us embassi had been move in 2018 . palestinian lost fund and were sidelin . the jordanian king even went to turkey for a meet , and he had hope trump would reconsid the embassi move . & nbsp ; by 2020 , thing were move in favor of the peac deal , with key work from jare kushner and avi berkowitz . but calcul have chang in 2021 . & nbsp ; human - right group have made a new push to condemn israel for & ldquo ; apartheid . & rdquo ; there have been call on the biden administr to pressur israel . former cia director john brennan and other have led the push , along with critic voic in congress . & nbsp ; meanwhil , netanyahu sought to fli to the uae for a quick trip to show off the new relat while in the midst of an elect campaign . have twice cancel the trip dure the pandem , he had to cancel again on march 11 , claim jordan had prevent a stopov . embarrass follow as voic in the uae express concern that they were be embroil in isra polit . & nbsp ; then came the jerusalem tension . fail attempt at palestinian elect and the begin of ramadan coincid with israel & rsquo ; s elect on march 23 . ramadan began on april 21 , and with it came clash . & nbsp ; nevertheless , the posit relat with the gulf have continu . uae ambassador to israel moham al khaja pen an op - ed at yediot about hi first month in israel . & nbsp ; howev , the scene at al - aqsa mosqu last friday were the kind that caus tension in the region . iran , hezbollah and hama had slam israel in the day lead up to the clash . turkey and qatar were prepar statement to slam israel . the us wa express concern and demand de - escal . european countri were follow the tension close . & nbsp ; instead of listen and tri to reduc the clash , isra secur forc wade into them . whether that wa due to polit uncertainti in israel , with netanyahu & rsquo ; s rival gain in influenc , or other issu wa not clear . & nbsp ; the secur cabinet met for the first time in month on april 18 . a new crisi after shoot attack in the west bank ha led israel to bolster forc . hama ha fire rocket and threaten more . israel is hold a larg drill prepar for a multifront conflict . & nbsp ; could gulf tie be strain by thi converg of troubl ? so far , the statement are what wa to be expect : concern and some mild condemn ; a desir for stabil and for israel to listen . the question is whether israel will listen . & nbsp ; israel & rsquo ; s rel cold offici relat with jordan and egypt , combin with good secur relat that larg go unnot , are the opposit of the posit tie and human - to - human connect with the gulf that saw isra flock to the region to take part in confer and discuss busi deal . & nbsp ; howev , voic in the uae caution israel about expect too much and move too fast . they certainli were wari of be use for a two - hour photo op by netanyahu befor an elect . & nbsp ; some isra right - wing voic in israel , accustom to slam arab state and never listen to region voic , have paid lip servic to peac with the gulf . but they still show littl interest in listen or take to heart the need to reduc tension in jerusalem . & nbsp ; outsid of the statement and jerusalem clash , israel and it peac partner in the gulf have much to work on regard wider issu , such as region strategi and tie with greec . there are new deal and initi move forward . & nbsp ; there is coexist . howev , the jerusalem tension are the kind that requir sensit handl and show respect for the concern of other , a type of languag that jerusalem ha not often use in recent year . & nbsp ; with a new administr in the white hous , elector uncertainti in israel , and iran , turkey , hama and hezbollah chomp at the bit for a showdown with the jewish state , mani challeng are in the air , of which the gulf & rsquo ; s concern about jerusalem are just one .