mk meir cohen from yesh atid , former welfar and social servic minist , wa interview recent by anat davidov and udi segal on 103fm radio about the war in gaza , about the departur of new hope chairman gideon sa ' ar from the coalit with benni gantz gantz , and on whether yesh atid would join the current coalit . he also critic the conduct of the govern and the knesset by state , `` there are debat here that you can ' t believ someon would rais dure a war , '' and said of the famili of the abducte , `` i see that it ha becom routin . '' regard the hostag deal take shape , cohen said that he `` see the famili , their stori becom routin . thi is the great danger that we are in the overal pictur of anoth thing call captiv , and the world continu as usual . i sincer hope that thi will not happen , and we are do everyth we can to prevent it . '' when ask if he wa afraid that the hostag would never be releas , he answer , `` ye . i don ' t know if the govern will give them up , but the govern ' s conduct and the lack of determin among some of the peopl i talk to lead us to the percept that there is not enough determin . where there is not enough determin , that a state abandon 134 hostag & mdash ; that ' s [ moral ] bankruptci . '' he reveal that `` there is loot of the state budget . it ' s unbeliev that someon think that in the great distress we are in , they can pass such a budget . '' he ad , `` we , as yesh atid , say that all we need to invest everyth in order to return the hostag . everyth must be done to bring them back , and if we have to pay a heavi price , we should . '' further into the interview , cohen wa ask if the prime minist and hi govern could afford to stall the return of the hostag . cohen answer , `` i don ' t know . we are talk to them and make our voic heard . i hear determin from one side , even within the famili of the hostag . we keep say we won ' t end the effort . our peopl probabl die in gaza everi week . '' the factor that influenc netanyahu ' s major polit decis & nbsp ; cohen also state , `` i am realiz that gantz and eisenkot do not have a signific influenc on the govern , '' and said regard sa ' ar , `` i think that what gideon did wa hi decis but he should not have done it . it is hi sole right to ask to be a cabinet member . what is worri is that i think that the prime minist will accept him into the cabinet , but he will also bring smotrich and ben - gvir along with him . '' sinc we are wit the crazi circu , the light of bonfir in our district by the secur minist , i am veri afraid of how the reduc cabinet will look . i realiz that both gantz and eisenkot no longer have a signific influenc on the conduct of the govern , and i call on them to leav . up until now , they are an oxygen balloon for netanyahu and the fail govern . '' when ask if there wa an option for them to join the current coalit , cohen said , `` we are no longer talk about enter the govern . we were the first to want a govern , but we warn against veri radic and messian element . even two month ago , we approach the prime minist and said , ' ani deal you offer , we will back it up . ' regard israel ' s polit reput , cohen state , `` i hear the voic in the knesset as if we are in our own utopian world . to be clear , the american , the english , and the german are not tell us not to enter rafah , they are not tell us not to continu with the elimin of hama , but they are ask what will happen after the oper . netanyahu is not readi to answer that . if we want posit intern attent and legitimaci , let ' s have a dialogu , not fight with the american . the prime minist suggest they are against us and onli he know how to stand up to them . it is unnecessari and it put us at risk `` .