likud mk amit halevi wa interview monday morn on udi segal and anat davidov ' s program on 103fm radio and comment on the current haredi draft law drama . halevi hurl harsh critic at the suprem court and attorney - gener gali baharav - miara , claim that thi is an issu that these two bodi should not be deal with at all . '' i wa still here when the knesset enact time and time again thi and other amend to the draft law . bottom line , the author wa taken from us , the court invalid thi law and arrang multipl time , '' halevi said at the begin of hi remark . he then clarifi hi posit on the matter , `` thi doe not mean that i accept that peopl do not serv in the armi . we must honestli say to the public , that not onli should the ultra - orthodox serv in the armi , but but so should the arab , who for almost four gener have becom accustom to the obscen habit of not particip in the moral , civil , and torah duti of serv in the idf . that is whi we need to chang thi as quickli as possibl to bring actual result . '' accord to halevi , `` the propos in the past were propos that said ' let ' s understand the ultra - orthodox , and we will make process , but in the end , they will lead to a deeper integr into societi . ' i think everyon who studi torah or studi torah in the past know that thi is perhap the most import mitzvah ; protect the jewish peopl . '' halevi ' s transpar and hi open critic of the govern & nbsp ; halevi continu to emphas that `` thi matter requir correct , and yet these two issu , even if you avoid them elegantli , will not pass - even when previou govern [ tri fix thi ] , the suprem court invalid differ arrang time and time again . we need to deal with thi issu , and it will probabl take some time , but there is no doubt that the end result should be that everi citizen of the state of israel , includ the arab public , should be draft . '' when ask whether the intervent of the attorney gener and the suprem court in the matter wa a mistak , halevi answer decis , `` the suprem court ' s intervent over the year in thi matter is misplac intervent and a lack of author . thi is our social , public matter and the knesset should decid on thi . the attorney - gener overstep here . in a terribl ironi , but it must be said , mayb if the ultra - orthodox had support terror a littl , she wouldn ' t have dare to cut their budget . ''