mk benni gantz ' s polit futur remain stabl while netanyahu ' s leadership remain in doubt : an elect poll conduct by maariv and polit pollster dr . menachem lazar uncov what the polit landscap would look like had elect been held today . & nbsp ; the nation uniti parti , led by mk benni gantz , continu to weaken despit it boost follow the outbreak of the israel - hama war and gantz ' s entri into the govern . nation uniti would see a decreas of two mandat ( decreas to 33 from the last poll ' s 35 seat ) . at the same time , the likud parti , head by prime minist benjamin netanyahu , slowli recov two more seat to be posit at 19 mandat . & nbsp ; mk gideon sa ' ar , who left nation uniti and quit the coalit in mid - march to form hi own parti , new hope & mdash ; the nation right , is predict to rise abov the elector threshold with four mandat . & nbsp ; sa ' ar remain in , smotrich outwhil sa ' ar is predict to remain in the knesset , other are less fortun . financ minist bezalel smotrich , who head the religi zionist parti , is expect to not pass the threshold with mere 2 . 9 % of the vote . & nbsp ; other religi parti expect to remain in the knesset includ unit torah judaism , who could gain up to one more seat , and in gener , most parti remain unchang in the knesset ' s seat distribut sinc the last poll . & nbsp ; regard potenti coalit format , the opposit and coalit are weaken by two mandat each due to sa ' ar ' s incom bloc of four seat , lead to a project balanc of 65 mandat for the current opposit and 46 mandat for the current coalit govern . & nbsp ; along with poll for the distribut of mandat in the knesset , respond were ask about leadership and who they deem fit to lead israel as prime minist . these result remain similar to last week ' s , with 45 % of respond support a gantz premiership , while support for netanyahu as prime minist decreas by four point , current at 34 % . & nbsp ; dr . lazar is a polit pollster , public opinion specialist , and ceo at panel polit , and conduct the elector poll in cooper with a panel of internet respond use the site panel4al . co . il . & nbsp ; the survey wa conduct between march 27 and 28 , 2024 , and wa answer by 503 respond repres of the state of israel ' s popul . respond includ isra over 18 and jew and arab . the margin of error in thi survey stood at 4 . 4 % . & nbsp ;