the israel antiqu author ( iaa ) and the lod municip discov them by chanc dure excav of a destroy jewish public build . expert said they were evid of the last jewish revolt against roman rule in israel & ndash ; 1 , 650 year ago . the dramat discoveri is the first - ever evid in lod of the gallu revolt , the last jewish resist against roman rule , between 351 and 354 ce . the excav wa carri out on nordau street in the build from the late roman - earli byzantin period that suffer violent destruct . presum , the coin , date from 221 to 354 ce , were deliber place there in the hope that the owner would return to collect them when the situat calm down . there is veri littl written evid about the gallu revolt . howev , text indic that the forc of roman caesar flaviu constantinu gallu destroy major jewish commun such as lod , zipori , and tiberia . among the variou find in the build were impress stone and marbl artifact , along with greek , hebrew , and latin inscript , includ one bear the name of a jewish man from a priestli famili , which is still under examin . these inscript , coupl with the complet absenc of pig bone from the bone assemblag uncov on the site , attest to thi build & rsquo ; s associ with the jewish commun . ' an excit , veri emot move find ' & nbsp ; accord to iaa site excav shahar krispin and mor viezel , & ldquo ; in all likelihood , thi is a magnific jewish build that hous the citi & rsquo ; s elder . from talmud write , we know that lod wa a most signific jewish center in the aftermath of the second templ & rsquo ; s destruct in jerusalem . some of the renown & lsquo ; sage of lod & rsquo ; are rabbi eliez ben horkano , rabbi tarfon , rabbi akiva , rabbi yosi ha & rsquo ; galili , and mani more . & ldquo ; the build , destroy down to it veri foundat , is a clear indic that the revolt wa forc put down with violenc and cruelti and wa not simpli a local upris event , as some earlier studi contend . thi is the singular wit , thu far , to the extent and power of thi revolt in lod , which is locat in the countri & rsquo ; s center . & rdquo ; iaa council head prof . joshua schwartz , who studi talmud - period lod , note that & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s hard to know if thi magnific build serv as synagogu , studi hall , meet hall of the elder , or all three of these function as one . but what is clear is that the build & rsquo ; s size , the coin hoard , and the assemblag of archaeolog find produc by the excav fit well lod / diospoli & rsquo ; s descript , in both jewish and non - jewish sourc , as a center of torah - true jewish life in the mishna and talmud period . lod & rsquo ; s role as a lead commun with elder continu from after the destruct through to thi moment , when it wa cruelli cut down in the gallu revolt . & rdquo ; iaa director eli escuzido conclud that & ldquo ; the impress find uncov here reinforc our respons to investig and to conserv lod & rsquo ; s histori and rich heritag . along with the citi & rsquo ; s new exhibit center of the beauti lod mosaic , we now bring thi build to the awar of the gener public . & rdquo ; lod mayor yair revivo ad that & ldquo ; thi is an excit and veri emot move find , anoth link in the chain of lod & rsquo ; s tannait period heritag as host to the author of the mishna and lod & rsquo ; s jewish histori . the find in the area prove that lod is one of the oldest citi in the world . we wish to thank the iaa for reveal our citi & rsquo ; s past glori . i believ that now that it is uncov , thi site will bring mani tourist and visitor to the citi . lod is connect to it past and is look forward to a bright futur . & rdquo ; the find will be publish as part of the central israel region archaeolog confer , which will be held at tel aviv & rsquo ; s eretz yisrael museum on june 20 and jointli host by tel aviv univers , bar - ilan univers , and the ( iaa ) . the event is open to the public at no charg . detail can be found on the israel antiqu author websit .