israel could consid a small tactic paus to the gaza war for an hour or so , prime minist benjamin netanyahu told david muir of abc & rsquo ; s world new tonight program as he respond to the intern pressur for a ceasefir . & ldquo ; as far as tactic littl paus , an hour here , an hour there , we have had them befor , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . & ldquo ; we will check the circumst in order to enabl humanitarian good to come in or individu hostag to leav , & rdquo ; he state on tuesday . earlier in the day he spoke with us presid joe biden about the possibl of such a paus to the war which wa spark on octob 7 , when hama kill over 1 , 400 peopl in southern israel and kidnap over 240 other . accord to the white hous , & ldquo ; the two leader discuss the possibl of tactic paus to provid civilian with opportun to safe depart from area of ongo fight . & rdquo ; such paus , the white hous said , would & ldquo ; ensur assist is reach civilian in need , and ... enabl potenti hostag releas . & rdquo ; netanyahu : ceasefir akin to surrenderisrael ha insist that ani ceasefir must includ the releas of all the hostag , and that even then it could happen onli with the understand that the idf still intend to pursu it militari campaign to oust hama from gaza . the unit state ha back israel on that point , but the two side have differ on a mechan for humanitarian paus , with israel fear that such a break in the fight could becom a de facto ceasefir . & ldquo ; a ceasefir would be a surrend to hama . it would be a victori for hama and you would no more have it than you would have a ceasefir after the al - qaeda bomb of the world trade center & rdquo ; in new york in 2001 , netanyahu told abc . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; there will be no gener ceasefir in gaza without the releas of our hostag , & rdquo ; he stress . a ceasefir would hamper the & ldquo ; war effort & rdquo ; as well as effort to secur the releas of the hostag , he said . & ldquo ; the onli thing that work on these crimin in hama is the militari pressur we are exert , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . & ldquo ; until we start the ground oper there wa no pressur on them to releas hostag . what we see is that the minut we start the ground action there wa pressur , '' he ad . netanyahu also appear to indic that israel might have some intellig on the locat of the hostag . he also address the civilian cost of the campaign to palestinian in gaza , in light of the un ' s report that some 1 . 5 million of the 2 . 7 million peopl live in the coastal enclav have been displac due to the war . hama ha assert that over 10 , 000 peopl have been kill . netanyahu said the number includ at least sever thousand palestinian combat . & ldquo ; everi civilian lost is a tragedi . we are fight an enemi that is particularli brutal . they are use their civilian as human shield , & rdquo ; he said , referenc the fact that hama place it infrastructur in civilian area . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s import to understand that there is no way to defeat terrorist & rdquo ; embed in civilian area without incur civilian casualti , he state . muir also ask netanyahu if he took respons for the isra secur failur that led to the octob 7 attack . & ldquo ; the respons of the govern is to protect the peopl and that clearli wa not met , '' netanyahu said , but he ad that the issu wa best address after the war . netanyahu agre with muir that he need to take respons but not while conduct a militari campaign . when the war is over , he said , & ldquo ; tough question are go to be ask and i am go to be the among first to answer them . & rdquo ;