ongo drama in israel provid ampl fodder for bud novelist and playwright : the saturday night and other demonstr which bring so mani peopl of vari background togeth ; the differ in treatment of famili of hostag by the american and isra govern ; the number of famili whose love one were murder on octob 7 , who in interview have said that not a singl govern minist visit them or contact them in ani way to offer condol ; and how educ minist yoav kisch ha been forc to backtrack on sever erron decis , the most recent be the israel prize . last week , the educ ministri publish the full list of thi year ’ s israel prize laureat , who at the close of independ day event will receiv their award not in jerusalem but in sderot , much to the annoy of jerusalem mayor mosh lion . the list includ technolog entrepreneur and benjamin netanyahu nemesi eyal waldman , whom kisch reportedli want to exclud by make certain chang to thi year ’ s israel prize ceremoni . but when attorney - gener gali baharav miara declin to defend hi decis in court , kisch had no choic other than to retract . but the controversi is not yet behind him . both he and netanyahu sit on a panel with presid isaac herzog and other dignitari as each laureat come to the stage to receiv hi or her prize , and then walk along the row shake hand and is congratul by each of the dignitari . will netanyahu and kisch exchang a few pleasantri with waldman and shake hi hand , and perhap offer a few word of sympathi over the loss of hi daughter on octob 7 ? or will they find conveni excus to absent themselv from the ceremoni ? incident , in addit to waldman , anoth controversi figur among the laureat will be sephardi chief rabbi yitzhak yosef , who ha spoken out against the haredi draft . yosef will receiv the prize for torah literatur and jewish law . three hebrew univers faculti among israel prize honore ■ apropo the israel prize , at the hebrew univers , of jerusalem they ’ re kvell , becaus three of the honore are among their past and present faculti member . prof . gershon ben - shakhar ha been recogn for hi work in psycholog research ; prof . ya ’ acov ritov for hi contribut to statist research , and prof . hagai bergman for life scienc research . in congratul them , hu presid prof . asher cohen said : “ thi is no less than an amaz achiev , showcas the high academ calib of the hebrew univers , which boast research with except abil across all disciplin . ” czech republ move embassi soon ? ■ when the czech republ open an embassi branch offic in jerusalem in march , 2021 , it wa understood that it wa mere a matter of time befor the whole embassi would move to israel ’ s capit , with or without the approv of the european union . the czech have a long histori of be among israel ’ s best alli in europ . there ’ s a reason that herzog chose to give israel ’ s presidenti medal of honor to then - czech presid milo zeman in juli 2022 . there ’ s also a reason that sever place in israel bear the name masaryk . czech prime minist petr fiala said after the hama attack on israel that transfer the embassi to jerusalem would be “ a desir step . ” from recent media report , it would seem that he is move in that direct . if so , the czech republ will be the first member of the eu to open an embassi in jerusalem , and the second nato member state after the us to do so . trump stay himself ■ last week , former and possibl futur us presid donald trump gave an exclus interview to israel hayom report omer lachmanovitch and ariel kahana , who thought it import that israel hear what trump had to say . trump , be trump , claim that he had done more for israel than ani other us presid . it can not be deni that he did a tremend amount , but whether he did more than present incumb joe biden is a matter for debat , although trump will undoubtedli go down in histori as the presid who move the us embassi to jerusalem . but there ’ s noth surpris in the fact that he gave hi exclus interview to israel hayom , which advertis it for day on end on electron media . the late sheldon adelson , who launch israel hayom in 2007 , wa one of the most gener of republican campaign donor . trump show hi appreci in novemb 2018 by confer the presidenti medal of freedom on adelson ’ s wife , dr . miriam adelson , who is now one of the wealthiest women in the us and the publish of israel hayom . golden age of american jew ? ■ subject occupi attent of journalist work for jewish public , or jewish journalist work for gener media around the globe , are antisemit , the isra hostag situat , israel ’ s war against hama , and how far point of disagr between israel and the us and israel and the eu will be permit to go . a worrisom april cover stori by franklin foer in the atlant is headlin “ the golden age of american jew is end . ” it ha been pick up in whole or in part by variou public outsid america , includ yediot aharonot , which translat it into hebrew , publish it in it financi supplement , calcalist , and includ in the titl page of a veri long articl 24 portrait of promin american jew . there are addit illustr throughout . there are slightli fewer portrait on the cover of the atlant and mostli of peopl differ from those featur in calcalist . the cover of the atlant also contain sever line in yiddish which do not appear in the hebrew translat . print in yiddish on the left ear of the page is the statement : “ what doesn ’ t suit america , likewis doe not suit me . what ’ s not good for jew is also not good for america . ” then , in a line across the page , abov the row of portrait : “ what happen to our golden land ? ” the articl wa suffici provoc to prompt an onlin discuss with foer sponsor by harvard hillel and introduc by harvard hillel rabbi dani passow . nineteenth - centuri jew consid america to be “ die golden medina , ” and for some it certainli wa – almost from day one . but for mani jew it wa a tough ride through sever period of antisemit . but accord to foer there wa a discern differ between jew take on the european way of life and jew becom american . “ jew didn ’ t have to accept the devil ’ s bargain [ where ] the cost of citizenship wa assimil . in the unit state , you could be your jewish self . ” even so , with onli a few except , most notabl in hollywood , jew didn ’ t rise to high posit till the 1960 . in 1950 , accord to foer , there wa not a singl jewish professor at yale . by the end of the 1960 , 17 % of the professor at elit american univers were jewish . that ’ s an incred dramat leap in such a short space of time , and what follow wa a golden age for american jewri in almost everi white - collar profess . foer began research antisemit in america long befor octob 7 . hi brother , a religi observ jew who live in brooklyn , call him to tell him of an antisemit incid that he had experienc . that call led foer to research antisemit in america and to reach the conclus that , for the forese futur , the golden era for jew in america is near it conclus . ethiopian aliyah remain delay ■ the peopl least surpris by the govern ’ s failur in a six - month period to bring home the hostag from gaza are member of israel ’ s ethiopian commun , who have been wait for long year to be reunit with rel who were left behind with empti promis that their turn to set foot in the holi land would soon come . as horrif a situat as the hostag are in , let us not forget that avera mengistu ha been captiv in gaza sinc septemb 2014 . the issu of the ethiopian jew still wait to make aliyah came up in the knesset last month , when the delay wa question and critic by yisrael beytenu mk ode forer , who chair the knesset committe for immigr , absorpt , and diaspora affair , and yesh atid mk and former knesset speaker mickey levi , who chair the state control committe . at a joint meet of the two committe , forer and levi queri whi thousand of peopl are still stuck in transit camp in addi ababa and gondar , and whi govern resolut 713 to bring to israel 3 , 000 of the 14 , 000 wait peopl had not been implement . the debat will continu after the summer recess of the knesset . meanwhil , uja - feder of new york ha weigh in on thi injustic . gabriel sod , the organ ’ s israel - base director of govern relat and media , ha call on the govern to stop it foot - drag and to bring to israel 1 , 226 ethiopian jew who have been found elig . hundr of ethiopian jewish famili have been separ through israel ’ s bureaucrat ineptitud . one exampl is svinor tarkein , who came to israel from ethiopia in 2007 and spent six year serv in the idf . hi grandmoth remain in ethiopia , and an uncl of hi who live in israel wa murder on octob 7 . tarkein can not understand whi ethiopian jew with proven blood tie to ethiopian alreadi resid or even born in israel are prevent from join them . new brain imag center at reichman univers ■ recent launch at reichman univers by the rosent - belachovski famili wa the ruth and meir rosent brain imag center , which facilit interdisciplinari research and integr the cognit scienc with medic scienc as well as field not typic associ with mri research , such as law , market , human - machin interact , diplomaci , strategi , and manag . the center also provid guidanc to research who are not experienc in integr imag into their research endeavor , assist them from the conceptu phase to implement . the scope of research possibl is endless . the center ’ s mri devic is a siemen magnetom prisma 3 tesla , a state - of - the - art research system design for human scan , with the capabl to produc except high - qualiti imag . it enabl high - grade anatom , function , and metabol scan of variou bodi organ . establish in 2021 as part of the univers ’ s baruch ivcher school of psycholog , the center wa convert into an independ univers entiti in late 2023 . found with the aim of help research work with mri / fmri technolog , the center play a pivot role in provid tailor servic and an object window into the brain befor , after , or dure an activ , which significantli enhanc research reliabl . the center also offer scan for interdisciplinari and neurocognit studi conduct by research from reichman univers , other academ institut , and extern compani and start - up . at present , research at the center are engag in deal with post - trauma , resili , and the impact of innov treatment method , alongsid basic scientif research . ru found presid and chairman of the board prof . uriel reichman stress the import of the donat of the mri in contribut to the advanc of the univers . “ we are march toward a substanti expans of our scope – from interdisciplinar in the social scienc to interdisciplinar in technolog and life scienc , ” he said . “ thi signific mileston will alreadi be reflect next year , with the open of addit laboratori , endeavor in the life scienc , and the establish of the medic school . i have no doubt that the interdisciplinari natur of our institut and the invest made in psycholog and neurosci will yield groundbreak research . ” expand on thi theme , dikla ender - fox , director of the center , emphas that “ thi contribut by the rosent - belachovski famili will pave the way for signific and pioneer research and advanc , particularli at a univers that also priorit appli research . ” moral compass ■ sever hebrew media outlet last week carri a headlin state that netanyahu had lost the north . the headlin follow the statement by us senat major leader chuck schumer that netanyahu ha lost hi way , and the suggest that israel should go to elect . thi did not sit well with isra – includ those who agre with schumer – becaus it wa interpret as american interfer in isra polit . but for student of linguist , there is interest food for thought . to find one ’ s way ( at least in the tradit manner ) , one need a compass . in hebrew , the word for “ compass ” is “ matzpen . ” the word for “ north ” is “ tzafon , ” and the word for “ conscienc ” is “ matzpun . ” the p and the f sound are interchang , and becaus hebrew is gener written without vowel , when one look onli at the conson of the three word , there is an undeni similar . thi is obviou not onli in the spell but in the mean . north is the highest point on the compass , and a person ’ s conscienc guid hi or her decis on issu of moral . women ' s accomplish ■ regular reader of the jerusalem post will have notic the extent to which the paper ’ s manag took women ’ s histori month to heart and ha boost women leader in numer field , last month bring them togeth at a women leader summit . women have reach top rank in more industri than is gener realiz . at the summit a women ’ s entrepreneurship competit host by post and the luzzatto group wa won by alisa givertz , founder and ceo of liquid360 , who receiv the 2024 next - gen women ’ s entrepreneurship award . liquid360 offer technolog solut to make compani ’ site more secur and readi for ani situat . the competit for young start - up entrepreneur took place dure the summit at the googl for start - up campu in tel aviv . givertz wa select by a panel of judg that includ dr . esther luzzatto , ceo of the luzzatto group ; tamar luzzatto , head of busi develop , market and innov at the luzzatto group ; and dr . gili bittan - banin , head of innov at the bazan group . explor antisemit at the begin heritag center via zoom ■ over the past coupl of year , the begin heritag center in jerusalem ha gain a vast follow by hold event that are both zoom and in - person . asid from anyth els , it enabl zoom audienc abroad to feel as if they are part of the israel experi . the next upcom event in english will be on sunday , april 7 , at 7 : 30 p . m . like the unit state and some other western countri , the uk ha experienc a tidal wave of anti - israel protest and a huge rise in antisemit sinc octob 7 . weekli demonstr take place in london , and british member of parliament fear for their safeti if they ’ re perceiv as pro - israel . dr . david hirsh , the ceo of the london centr for the studi of contemporari antisemit , is current in israel and will speak on “ respons to octob 7 : the british experi . ” hirsh ha been at the forefront of the fight against antisemit in the uk for more than 20 year , especi antisemit and anti - zionism in academia and on campu . he is the author of contemporari left antisemit and editor of the rebirth of antisemit in the 21st centuri . he ha coedit a compil of essay respond to octob 7 , to be publish in may of thi year . zoom audienc should be awar that the lectur will begin at 12 : 30 p . m . edt . access the link below to join the webinar : http : // us02web . zoom . us / j / 82396331946webinar id : 823 9633 1946uri dromi retir as head of the jerusalem press club ■ after a decad as founder and director - gener of the jerusalem press club , uri dromi is retir , though he won ’ t be give up hi own journalist activ as a contributor to public in israel and abroad . from 1992 , to 1996 , dromi , a retir air forc colonel , serv as spokesman for the rabin and pere - led govern . he ’ s also an author and polit analyst . on april 9 , jpc will give him a fond farewel recept while simultan celebr it first decad of oper as a profession and social home for foreign and local journalist . that honor belong for sever year to beit agron , which is still home to the jerusalem associ of journalist , but which for some year now ha ceas to be the central meet point for journalist work out of the capit . there wa a time when the offic of mani foreign news agenc were in or around beit agron . but after the govern press offic move out and went to it current locat in the malha technolog park , thing began to disintegr . sever intern televis compani rent offic in what wa then jerusalem capit studio , and use the variou servic provid by jc . some are still there , but jc is not . the build wa sold to the head of the jerusalem post group , eli azur . sever of the electron media outlet take advantag of the servic offer by the gpo . dromi wa look for a more central and easili access venu and , with the help of the jerusalem foundat , found the ideal spot in yemin mosh , where facil for all media have been instal . dure major media event the jpc and the gpo have work in close cooper . american businessman come to help isra busi owner affect by war ■ american busi execut , confer speaker , author , and mentor jay abraham , who is known for develop success market industri strategi , wa in israel last week and accept the invit of nir yeshaya , the ceo of the edmond de rothschild group , to speak to member of the de rothschild team and lead isra businesspeopl in tel aviv . abraham came directli from the us to help owner of busi that have been harm as a result of israel ’ s war with hama . abraham , who ha been rate by forb as one of the top five manag coach and busi guru in the world , accept yeshaya ’ s invit to meet exclus with israel ’ s lead capitalist to discuss strategi , manag hazard , and busi crise dure emerg situat . thi is one of mani initi worldwid by the edmond de rothschild group , head by baro arian de rothschild , who is the first woman and the first person without direct rothschild lineag to head ani of the rothschild institut . billion of dollar have been donat from abroad ■ if all the money rais for a varieti of caus in israel through and by individu and group in israel and abroad wa ad up , the total would come to mani billion of dollar . it ’ s amaz how jew can get their act togeth dure a time of crisi – but the money did not come from jew alon . for instanc , sinc the octob 7 massacr by hama and the ensu war , the intern fellowship of christian and jew , head by yael eckstein , ha present the associ for israel ’ s soldier with $ 4 million to be use for soldier ’ need . the associ and the ifcj have partner in variou initi sinc 2005 . the associ recent arrang for senior member of the board of the ifcj to visit a battalion of idf reservist on a day of r & r , which wa made possibl through a gift of the ifcj . the visitor , who includ eckstein ; former congresswoman michel bachmann , chairman of the us board bishop paul lanier , ifcj canada chairman of the board of director mark climi - elliott , and hakeren l ’ yedidut director - gener ayelet shiloh tamir , were abl to speak with the reservist train on the base and hear about their servic throughout the war , while the soldier enjoy a cater meal , recreat game and music entertain . vegan and vegetarian flock to balfour street ■ vegan and vegetarian will be flock to 8 balfour street , jerusalem , on tuesday even , april 9 , to celebr the 90th birthday of lead vegetarian advoc prof . richard schwartz , who , togeth with speaker rabbi david rosen , prof . yael shemesh , and rabbi adam frank , will expound on judaism and vegetarian , and how abstain from nonvegetarian and non - vegan product fit in with the jewish concept of tikkun olam – fix the world . a prolif writer , schwartz ha written extens on the topic . rosen , the longtim intern director of interreligi affair of the american jewish committe , ha taken leav from thi posit to serv as the special advis to the abraham famili hous in abu dhabi . shemesh , in addit to be an emin bibl scholar , is a long - distanc runner . she is a faculti member of the bibl depart of bar - ilan univers , and her variou area of interest includ compass toward anim . frank , who is the former spiritu leader of the moreshet israel conserv congreg in jerusalem , is an activist in the sphere of religi plural and anim welfar , and cochairman of the jerusalem societi for the prevent of cruelti to anim . needless to say , the refresh to be serv will be vegan . greerfc @ gmail . com