with tension rise with iran , israel is concern that the islam republ could deploy up to 200 long - rang missil in iraq that could be use to attack the jewish state . iran is alreadi believ to have hundr of missil that can reach israel . & nbsp ; while the chanc of a direct confront between israel and iran are deem low , heighten tension in the north amid the possibl of a confront in syria or lebanon , could also draw iran to retali . & nbsp ; the rational for iran to deploy missil in iraq and launch them from there against israel would be to tri and prevent a direct idf retali against target within iranian territori . & nbsp ; israel ha reportedli up it attack against iranian infrastructur in syria in recent week . on monday morn , isra air forc aircraft reportedli struck target near damascu , the second such strike within a week . & nbsp ; the airstrik came just as a surpris militari drill cover israel & rsquo ; s entir northern region wa announc . dub & quot ; vere hagalil & quot ; , the massiv aerial drill , which start on monday , wa launch to help prepar the iaf for a futur war with hezbollah . & nbsp ; israel doe not current believ that hezbollah is interest in a new war , but militari intellig is of the opinion that there is a rel high chanc for a & ldquo ; few day of combat & rdquo ; between the idf and the iranian - back guerilla organ . & nbsp ; thi is believ to be the result of the group & rsquo ; s failur to aveng the kill of one of it oper last summer in an airstrik in syria , attribut to the iaf . an illustr of thi wa seen two week ago when hezbollah fire a surfac - to - air missil at an isra drone patrol southern lebanon . had the drone been hit , isra offici said that the idf would have been order to respond aggress . & nbsp ; dure the vere hagalil exercis , increas number of fighter jet and helicopt are expect to be notic across the countri , and a number of explos may be heard in northern israel . the exercis is said to end on wednesday . & nbsp ; the vere hagalil exercis simul combat scenario in the northern front , and will test all compon in the iaf @ @ @ s core mission , includ maintain aerial superior , protect the countri @ @ @ s sky , as well as attack and gather intellig .