the six small stand - up box contain three - dimension doll in inca costum , complet with their tradit design and surround by ceram pot , also in the tradit style . highli color , these miniatur doll are amazingli made out of potato flour ! peruvian artist zuli jimenez had been ask by jerusalem - base artist david moss to illustr the purim stori as told in the scroll of esther as if it were set in the artist & rsquo ; s own surround . jimenez decid to root her interpret in peru & rsquo ; s ancient cultur , which meant go back to a time when the inca rule the land . one innov among mani wa the depict of haman lead mordechai sit on a llama , sinc , as she explain , the hors had not been introduc into thi part of the world until the spaniard came and conquer peru . the experi of make these model wa for jimenez & ldquo ; unforgett & rdquo ; in that it combin art and histori , legend and stori - tell . it wa precis the reaction that moss wa look for and had alreadi receiv from hi mani guest artist from around the world over the previou thirti year when he start thi uniqu project . & ldquo ; in 1990 , i wa in bali , indonesia , & rdquo ; he recal , & ldquo ; search for craftspeopl for anoth project of mine , when i view the beauti miniatur be produc by the local artist . bali , a tradit hindu societi , is full of palac , royalti , princ and princess , ceremoni and ritual . all these thing strongli remind me of the stori of esther and purim . so when i went back the second time , i ask artist from two differ villag to do their take on the stori . i gave them parchment and the stori of esther translat into indonesian . i drew six small blank rectangl and i told them to imagin that thi stori wa happen right in their villag . the six scene i ask them to envisag includ achashveru & rsquo ; s parti at the begin of the stori ; the beauti contest in which esther particip and win ; the reach out of the scepter by the king to esther ; haman lead mordechai on the king & rsquo ; s hors ; the hang of haman & rsquo ; s ten son ; and the write out of the megilla to go out to all the land of the king & rsquo ; s massiv kingdom . i didn & rsquo ; t want them to imagin persia or anyth to do with the origin stori . it had to be local in their own cultur and style . i wait for the respons . when i view the stunningli origin craft imag they had produc , it gave me anoth thought : perhap i could expand thi idea by seek out folk artist from around the world will to depict these same six scene in their own vernacular cultur and style . thu began a fascin , bizarr thirti - year quest i & rsquo ; ve come to call esther without border , & rdquo ; said moss . esther without bordersalthough it wa initi happenst that energ the begin of the project , moss & rsquo ; s enthusiasm onli grew as he encount folk artist from around the world who respond posit to hi strang request . in the cours of hi ongo project , he encount artist from ukrain , russia , bali , india , itali , ecuador , colombia , panama , california , new mexico , and so on , thu echo the megilla & rsquo ; s achashvero , whose kingdom spread from & ldquo ; hodu to kush & rdquo ; ( india to ethiopia ) . the origin purim ha a profoundli univers flavor . & ldquo ; i initi sought out folk artist , & rdquo ; said moss , & ldquo ; although i & rsquo ; ve ask a few profession artist , too . anoth chang came about when i approach an artist in itali whose charm work i had spot in a small exhibit in the piedmont region . he said he & rsquo ; d love to do the project but that he could not work in the miniatur format i had been request . i told him to use whatev format he like . he wa veri imagin , creat a delight accordion book , and also drew the main charact from the stori on the back of the work . he had a great sens of humor , depict the eunuch of the king , for exampl , with a pair of scissor on hi turban ! & nbsp ; & ldquo ; onc the mold wa broken , i let the rest of the artist do the imag in whatev format they were most comfort with . thi came to mean the project ha been done on tile , fabric , icon , and envelop , as well as on paper and parchment . & rdquo ; although moss is a much travel artist , the languag of commun with the artist doe sometim present problem . & ldquo ; with the italian artist , i found a nearbi galleri owner who help locat and commun with the artist . i use googl translat to commun with mani of the artist . fortun , the book of esther is also in the christian bibl , which ha been translat into hundr of languag . i send the artist the entir book in their own languag and highlight the six vers , & rdquo ; he explain . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; a friend wa head off to australia , and i ask her to propos the project to an aborigin artist if she came across one . she found emma burchil , a wonder artist who did the project in their highli abstract , symbol style . she explain to me how the aborigin paint their work use dot as if they were look down at the scene from a bird & rsquo ; s eye view . therefor , she show the feast view from abov as their campfir , with the guest danc the tradit corrobbre ceremoni around the fire . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; he did not have to travel for everi artist . some came to him in hi studio in huzot hayotz beneath the wall of the old citi of jerusalem . moss met bori gozzo , a talent ukrainian artist live in israel whose illustr portray some of the men in the scene as drunken peasant . most year , the art studio in huzot hayotz play host to an intern art and craft fair , so it wa that moss met rajendra kumar moktan from nepal whose expertis is in the creation of mandela & ndash ; prayer wheel use in buddhist and hindu sacr rite and as an instrument of medit . the detail scene he paint on canva truli convey the ceremoni of nepales cultur . & nbsp ; when i met moss in hi somewhat overcrowd studio , he had just got off the phone with a woman from portug . & ldquo ; her name is teresa , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; she work on azulejo tile in the blue and white ceram tradit from the 17th and 18th centuri . they were influenc by delft tile . she had just sent me a sketch of what she is do and wrote to me that she wa finish the last tile . she had paint the station of the cross in ceram for her local cathedr and the tile for the esther stori were done in thi strong portugues , christian tradit . & rdquo ; not that everi encount is success . & ldquo ; i tri a chines artist but didn & rsquo ; t like what he did . i & rsquo ; ll have to go back there and tri someon els . also , although i pay the artist whatev fee they request , if they ask more than i can afford , i let it go , & rdquo ; he said . it is perhap not surpris that some of these artist becam firm friend . & ldquo ; in morro bay , california , i met philip carey , who special in draw delight miniatur scene on envelop and mail them to their destin via the post offic . they are whimsic and full of humor . i marvel how he translat the esther stori into hi envelop art . he portray each of the figur as be from the anim world . so hi king is a monarch butterfli , esther is a morro bay sea otter , mordechai a bald eagl ride on a sea hors , haman is depict as a coyot , and so forth . esther send out the purim stori by & lsquo ; seamail & rsquo ; on seahors , and & lsquo ; landmail & rsquo ; with roadrunn . philip execut all these envelop imag in ink and color pencil and then sent them to me through the post offic . we were in close contact over the year , but tragic he ha pass away . i treasur these miniatur masterpiec that so embodi who he wa . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; although moss wa happi to give mani of these artist some visibl , he came upon one group of unknown artist who had simpli disappear . these were the mimbr , an extinct civil from southern new mexico who flourish between 1 , 000 and 1 , 150 ce and then vanish , leav behind no write . all that remain of them are the ruin of their build and their black - and - white potteri with uniqu styliz design . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; i wa alway captiv by the power design they left behind , and felt that it wa somehow unfair that i wa limit my project to live cultur . i decid to imagin myself as an ancient mimbr artist and design the six esther scene as round , bowl - like imag base on what wa recov from their tradit , & rdquo ; he said . & nbsp ; moss , an intern recogn book artist , calligraph , design of ketubot and architectur design , appreci how he ha succeed suffici well to have the abil and willing to help fellow artist who were not so fortun . at the same time , he ha not rush thi project nor doe he have futur plan for it . & ldquo ; i love that there is no end , goal , or deadlin to thi , & rdquo ; he confess . & ldquo ; peopl have suggest that i turn it into a book , other that it should be exhibit . my daughter elyssa run a center opposit my studio call kol haot , which bring togeth art and judaism . we did do a small show of these work there . but the beauti of thi project for me is in the remark peopl it ha connect me with , the thrill and surpris of open each new contribut , and the sheer joy of watch a simpl idea unfold and blossom in so mani surpris way . & rdquo ; whichev way moss decid , it would inde be a piti if thi impress project were not view by a much larger audienc . but mayb , as he joke , he & rsquo ; s go to wait until he reach 127 nation & ndash ; from india to ethiopia and beyond ! ■