unit nation secretari - gener antonio guterr said on wednesday that the number of civilian kill in the gaza strip show that there is someth `` clearli wrong `` with israel ' s militari oper against hama palestinian terrorist . '' there are violat by hama when they have human shield . but when one look at the number of civilian that were kill with the militari oper , there is someth that is clearli wrong , '' guterr told reuter next . israel ha vow to wipe out hama , which rule the gaza strip , after the terrorist kill 1 , 400 peopl and took more than 240 hostag in an oct . 7 attack . israel ha struck gaza from the air , impos a sieg and launch a ground invas . the number of palestinian killedhama offici have claim 10 , 569 peopl have now been kill , 40 % of them children . '' it is also import to make israel understand that it is against the interest of israel to see everi day the terribl imag of the dramat humanitarian need of the palestinian peopl , '' guterr said . `` that doesn ' t help israel in relat to the global public opinion . '' guterr compar the number of children be kill in gaza with the toll in conflict around the world that he report on annual . '' everi year , the highest number of kill of children by ani of the actor in all the conflict that we wit is the maximum in the hundr , '' guterr said . '' we have in a few day in gaza thousand and thousand of children kill , which mean there is also someth clearli wrong in the way militari oper are be done , '' he said . the un report on children and arm conflict includ a list intend to shame parti to conflict in the hope of push them to implement measur to protect children . it ha long been controversi , with diplomat say israel exert pressur in recent year in a bid to stay off the list . the next report is due mid - next year . the unit nation high commission for human right said on wednesday that war crime had been commit by both israel and hama in the conflict that erupt just over a month ago . '' the atroc perpetr by palestinian arm group on 7 octob were heinou , they were war crime - as is the continu hold of hostag , '' volker turk said at the rafah cross in egypt on the border with gaza . '' the collect punish by israel of palestinian civilian is also a war crime , as is unlaw forcibl evacu of civilian , '' he ad .