an idf soldier wa murder in a palestinian shoot attack near kedumim in the northern west bank on thursday , with the terrorist also later kill . the soldier wa identifi as idf staff - sergeant shilo yosef amir , a 22 year old from meirav in northern israel and a soldier in sayeret givati . hama ' s al - qassam brigad declar respons for the attack , say that it wa conduct as a respons to the recent isra oper in jenin and the tear up of the quran in urif . the al - qassam brigad ad that the attack aim `` to tell the crimin zionist minist [ financ minist betzalel ] smotrich that al - qassam almost knock on your door . '' smotrich live in kdumim . around 3 : 45 p . m . , secur forc connect to kedumim identifi a suspici white van that wa drive in circl around the outskirt of the yishuv . the suspici movement of the vehicl led those secur forc to send out a mix of a civilian secur offici and a group of four idf soldier to converg on and approach the van . idf brig . gen . avi blut said that the heighten awar of the yishuv ' s secur complement both in detect the van and in keep all of the gate to the yishuv close , may have save signific civilian live sinc it meant the terrorist could not penetr the yishuv or achiev ani surpris . the civilian secur offici arriv at the vehicl first and initi a request for the driver to produc identif . the driver continu to act suspici but did not yet open fire . how the attack unfoldedveri shortli after , the four idf soldier arriv and start to approach the terrorist . at a certain point dure their approach , the terrorist open fire , mortal wound the command of the four idf soldier , who wa hit with one deadli bullet . magen david adom initi indic that the soldier wa sever wound after the idf confirm report of the attack , but later confirm hi death . though the terrorist also fire in the direct of the civilian secur offici , he wa not injur . there were conflict report about potenti other incid in the area as the terrorist attack initi escap on foot , flee toward the jiat junction . the remain three idf soldier pursu him and manag to bring him down with gunfir . addit soldier arriv on the scene shortli after and ensur that he wa neutral . & nbsp ; blut said that the idf ha identifi the terrorist , but will onli releas hi ident later , after determin whether he wa a lone wolf attack or whether he wa direct to carri out the attack by a terror group . the idf ha alreadi determin that no other attack wa involv in the incid and that the terrorist did not come from jenin . blut said that onc the terrorist ' s ident is public , the idf will also initi process relat to hi famili and potenti demolish hi hous . thi is a develop stori .