& nbsp ; israel & rsquo ; s right to self - defens and to it ancient biblic capit of jerusalem suffer a blow on friday when an intern crimin court ( icc ) rule advanc the possibl of war crime suit against isra . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; if the intern crimin court is make a list of so - call isra [ war crime ] suspect , i ask that my name be put a the top of that list , & rdquo ; yamina parti head naftali bennett said on sunday . & nbsp ; it wa not just a statement of bravado against the highest intern crimin judiciari bodi . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; as a former defens minist , there is a veri real possibl that he could one day be target by the court . & nbsp ; for the palestinian , the icc rule offer a ray of hope to hold israel account for alleg human right abus . & nbsp ; upon hear of the rule , palestinian author prime minist moham shtayyeh respond by state that perpetr of crime will & ldquo ; not go unpunish . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; for mani isra the idea that the court plan to target them with respect to action in gaza and isra settlement activ , but ha not held human right abus in iran , syria and or china account , speak to the continu bia of intern organ against the jewish state . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; but how real is the possibl of war crime suit ? who would be target and for what ? & nbsp ; & nbsp ; how harm or help wa the rule to either israel or the palestinian author , which first turn to the court in 2015 and ask that it adjud war crime suit ? & nbsp ; 1 . is the probe onli focus on israel ? & nbsp ; no . the icc will examin action by both isra and palestinian , includ hama . but the probe wa launch at the request of palestinian and is expect to overwhelmingli focu on activ by isra against palestinian . & nbsp ; 2 . can all isra and or palestinian action be consid war crime ? & nbsp ; no . the icc will examin activ that occur sinc june 13 , 2014 . the scope of the probe is also limit to onli those incid which occur over the pre - 1967 line in east jerusalem , the west bank and gaza . thi includ jerusalem & rsquo ; s old citi , the western wall and the templ mount , known to muslim as al - haram al - sharif . isra are liabl for such action , even though israel is not a parti to the rome statut which govern the icc . the palestinian author , in contrast , sign the statut in 2015 . & nbsp ; 3 . what three main issu will the icc like probe ? & nbsp ; the first is the 2014 gaza war , includ the question of disproportion attack by the idf and indiscrimin rocket attack by arm palestinian group in gaza , includ hama . & nbsp ; the second is idf use of lethal forc against the hama - led & ldquo ; great march of return & rdquo ; along the gaza border , which began in march 2018 and end in decemb 2019 . & nbsp ; third , the icc would also look at the issu of whether settlement activ in the west bank and jewish build in east jerusalem , sinc that june 2014 date , could be consid a war crime . israel & rsquo ; s raze of palestinian structur could be examin tangenti , but not as the main focu . & nbsp ; other incid sinc that date could also be probe in the futur , but the main immedi thrust is expect to be these three issu . & nbsp ; 4 . is the state and or individu isra at risk ? & nbsp ; both . on the polici level , israel fear that a neg rule on matter relat to gaza would ultim rais question about israel & rsquo ; s right to self - defens and make it difficult for the idf to oper against threat to the state and it citizen , particularli on israel & rsquo ; s southern border . & nbsp ; a neg rule on settlement and jewish build in east jerusalem , israel fear , would undercut it legal claim to histor and religi right to it ancient biblic territori and it legal claim to be indigen to that territori . & nbsp ; if the palestinian are success at the icc , then isra activ in both it biblic heartland of judea and samaria , otherwis known as the west bank , and in it ancient capit of jerusalem , would be a war crime . & nbsp ; the secur cabinet mention the absurd of both claim when it issu a statement against the icc rule on sunday . & nbsp ; on the individu level , war crime suit could be level against peopl and not the state . thi mean that leader such as prime minist benjamin netanyahu and former defens minist mosh ya & rsquo ; alon , who held that post dure the 2014 gaza war , and avigdor liberman , who wa defens minist when the great march began . defens minist benni gantz and hi predecessor bennett could also be target along with individu soldier and command . & nbsp ; 5 . what wa friday & rsquo ; s rule and whi did it matter ? & nbsp ; the icc & rsquo ; s pre - trial chamber rule 2 - 1 that the court & rsquo ; s & nbsp ; chief prosecutor fatou bensouda had the jurisdict to open an investig into potenti isra and palestinian war crime on territori over the pre - 1967 line in the west bank , gaza and east jerusalem . jurisdict wa one of the earliest and most global ground on which the threat of an icc war crime suit could have been avert both on the issu of gaza and the settlement , had the three judg rule against jurisdict . & nbsp ; their decis in support of jurisdict can & rsquo ; t be appeal at thi stage . the argument against jurisdict can onli be reopen at a later phase in the process , onc individu charg have been file to the court for approv . & nbsp ; 6 . did the court & rsquo ; s jurisdict rule includ recognit of palestin as a state ? & nbsp ; no . the pre - trial chamber specif state that such a move wa outsid of it purview , but it said that it could be consid as such sole for the purpos of these issu of adjud war crime . & nbsp ; the basi of it rule strengthen the statu of de facto palestinian statehood and the role of the unit nation in determin that statu . the rule upgrad the signific of the 2012 un gener assembl resolut that grant the palestinian the statu of a non - member state by legitim the de facto statu it grant the pa to have the right of member state to sign un treati and statu , includ the rome statut . it wa that signatur which open the possibl of war crime suit . & nbsp ; the pre - trial chamber also reli on the text of that resolut to set the territori on which it had jurisdict . it wa a move that upgrad the legal statu and impact of such resolut , particularli with respect to the isra - palestinian conflict . & nbsp ; 7 . how signific wa the dissent opinion ? & nbsp ; icc judg p & eacut ; ter kov & aacut ; cs disagre with hi two other peer ; rein ad & eacut ; la & iuml ; de sophi alapini - gansou and marc perrin de brichambau , as well as with bensouda herself . he said that palestin could not be consid a de facto state for the purpos of the tribun and that the court & rsquo ; s jurisdict could not be fulli extend to gaza , the west bank and east jerusalem . & nbsp ; he took particular issu with the relianc hi peer and bensouda place on the unga & rsquo ; s 2012 resolut , which he said wa non - bind and did not carri the legal weight attribut to it . & nbsp ; in a strongli word 168 - page option , that wa longer than the origin 60 - page one issu by the pre - trial chamber , he brought into evid statement by pa offici themselv as well as the un , to the effect that palestin is not yet consid to be a state . & nbsp ; kov & aacut ; cs argument lend legal weight to israel & rsquo ; s content that palestin can not be consid a state . they reflect a lack of legal unanim on the issu with the court and can be use later to bolster appeal claim . & nbsp ; 8 . what are the next step ? & nbsp ; bensouda would inform the parti and the court that she ha open an investig , at which time they would have 30 day to respond . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; among the critic aspect of her investig is the question of whether the isra or the palestinian have adjud or would adjud issu with regard to gaza and the settlement , accord to israel democraci institut vice presid of research and legal expert prof . yuval shani . the icc is call into play often onli in situat where the nation court system is non - exist or ha not address the pertin issu , he explain . & nbsp ; it is at thi stage that isra probe or potenti probe into crimin activ by it soldier in gaza could sway bensouda not to move forward on war crime alleg with regard to gaza , shani said . & nbsp ; israel ha not simultan held crimin investig into settlement activ & ndash ; which it consid to be legal & ndash ; and thu bensouda is like to move the matter of settlement forward to the phase of individu crimin charg . & nbsp ; those charg against individu either with respect to gaza or the settlement must be confirm with the court . it is at that phase that individu charg could appeal , includ on jurisdict ground , shani said . & nbsp ; the time of the matter is like to be crucial , sinc bensouda & rsquo ; s term as chief prosecutor is slate to end in june and a new prosecutor will make decis on the case .