in a statement on monday , jerusalem chief rabbi shlomo mosh amar call on the public not to publicli celebr mimouna due to the war . mimouna is a holiday celebr the day after the end of the passov holiday and origin with north african jew ; thi year , it will be celebr on april 30 . the holiday quickli spread to other group in israel and is now celebr across differ heritag group . celebr often take the shape of open hous parti with a wide varieti of food ; guest are expect to go from hous to hous , celebr with each household , although thi is less common in modern time . politician quickli pick up on thi and began attend and public their attend at mimouna parti . rabbi amar previous serv as the isra sephardi chief rabbi from 2003 to 2013 , and shortli after finish hi term , becam chief rabbi of jerusalem in 2014 . '' sinc we are alreadi past the holiday , it is not appropri for us to celebr in public with drum and danc when so mani of our brother are hostag and wound , '' he said in the messag . '' we will dedic thi night to strengthen ourselv by studi book of faith and secur . we will thank the holi one , bless be he , for all hi grace , and ask for a speedi futur redempt of the peopl of israel . '' a break with traditionrabbi amar use to hold a public mimouna event everi year with rabbi and public figur , but thi year , he cancel it . a walla report publish on sunday indic that the top leadership of the countri , who have tradit been guest of honor at the celebr of their activist and support throughout the countri , are not expect to particip thi year . & nbsp ; speaker of the knesset amir ohana , last year even held an open mimouna event in the knesset build for the first time , but thi year doe not intend to celebr publicli . the head of the opposit , yair lapid , the nation uniti parti head , benni gantz , as well as the yisrael beytenu head , avigdor lieberman , are also not expect to celebr thi year . '' what is there to celebr these day ? '' wa the common respons to the inquiri .