daoud zubeidi , the brother of palestinian prison zakaria zubeidi who temporarili escap from gilboa prison last year , die on sunday from wound sustain dure arm clash with isra forc in burkin on friday . he wa shot in the abdomen after forc from the yamam counterterror unit , border polic and sayeret golani enter the villag near jenin to arrest want palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) member mahmoud al - debai on friday morn . dure the oper , which last close to four hour , clash with gunmen injur 13 palestinian , includ two serious and five moder . one of the serious wound palestinian gunmen wa identifi as zubeidi . he wa transfer to the ibn sina hospit in jenin for medic care and then to rambam medic center in haifa , follow a request from the palestinian when hi condit deterior . the hospit confirm hi death . israel is reportedli withhold hi bodi . & nbsp ; follow attack in which palestinian are kill by isra secur forc , their bodi are regularli taken to israel . though bodi are sometim retir to their famili at a later date to be buri , israel ha also withheld bodi in order to be use as part of futur negoti and as a deterr against terror attack . & nbsp ; the al - aqsa martyr brigad in jenin had warn on saturday that & ldquo ; ani harm to the life of the wound daoud al - zubeidi will open the fire of hell in the face of the zionist enemi and herd of crimin settler . & rdquo ; zubeidi & rsquo ; s brother zakaria escap from gilboa prison along with three other secur prison in septemb . he wa onc consid a & ldquo ; symbol of the intifada , & rdquo ; but renounc milit over a decad ago and wa award clemenc by israel after he agre to give up arm . he had been arrest by the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) in 2019 follow intellig that he wa plan a seriou attack in the west bank and for two shoot attack against isra buse in the west bank near beit el and psagot . dure the clash in which zubeidi wa injur , yamam counterterror offic sgt .- maj . noam raz wa shot and critic wound . he wa evacu to rambam hospit by helicopt where he succumb to hi wound . a senior idf offic told journalist that said he wa shot in the back as forc were leav the villag under fire . & ldquo ; i & rsquo ; ve been through everyth over the past 20 year , but there were thousand of bullet fire toward us and our vehicl thi morn , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; it wa indescrib . & rdquo ; raz wa buri on sunday morn on mount herzl with hundr of mourner in attend . secur forc have been on high alert across the countri as isra arab and palestinian mark nakba day & ndash ; the 74th anniversari of what the arab world refer to as & ldquo ; the catastroph & rdquo ; follow the found in 1948 of the state of israel . tension are alreadi high follow a spate of deadli terrorist attack that have kill 19 peopl in israel .