for palestinian author presid mahmoud abba , the event of the past week in jerusalem have been both a bless and a curs . on the one hand , he manag to get israel into troubl with mani countri by portray it as the & ldquo ; aggressor . & rdquo ; on the other hand , what happen at al - aqsa mosqu compound ( templ mount ) ha embolden hi rival in hama and other extremist group , show that they have more influenc and support in jerusalem than the pa or jordan . the violenc that erupt at the templ mount last friday brought the isra - palestinian conflict back to the center of the world & rsquo ; s attent , which ha been almost entir focus on the russian invas of ukrain sinc februari . thi came as good news for abba . sinc the ukrain war began , palestinian offici in ramallah have been work hard to redirect the intern commun & rsquo ; s attent toward the isra - palestinian conflict . their major concern wa that israel would exploit the world & rsquo ; s preoccup with the war to impos new fact on the ground , especi in jerusalem and it islam holi site . but in the past week these offici have express satisfact with the wide coverag the violenc in jerusalem receiv in the intern media . abba and hi aid were even more delight to see the larg number of condemn of israel , in particular those come from arab and islam countri . us secretari of state antoni blinken & rsquo ; s phone call to hi jordanian counterpart , dure which he & ldquo ; emphas the import of uphold the histor statu quo at the haram al - sharif / templ mount , & rdquo ; wa also receiv with deep satisfact in ramallah and amman . abba wa also happi to receiv a phone call from blinken with a similar messag . ever sinc the resumpt of jewish visit to the templ mount sever year ago , the pa leadership ha been accus israel of wage & ldquo ; religi war & rdquo ; on the muslim . the accus , which continu to thi day , aim to ralli as mani arab and muslim as possibl against israel . the visit of the jew are portray by palestinian and jordanian offici and media outlet as violent incurs by extremist settler under the protect of the israel polic . yet , the alleg fail to achiev their goal , as the reaction of most arab and muslim have remain limit to lip servic . scene of palestinian burn flag and photo of arab leader engag in normal with israel manag to enrag mani arab , especi those resid in the gulf state . those arab were further enrag when they saw palestinian curs and harass emirati and bahraini visitor to the templ mount . the abraham accord , which were sign between israel and a number of arab countri , as well as the appar rapproch between israel and saudi arabia , left the palestinian with the impress that the arab and muslim do not realli care about israel & rsquo ; s ostens scheme to chang the statu quo at the templ mount by alloc time and space for jewish prayer there . that & rsquo ; s whi palestinian offici in ramallah were pleas thi week to see the unit arab emir , bahrain and saudi arabia condemn & ldquo ; the israel polic & rsquo ; s storm of al - aqsa mosqu . & rdquo ; these offici , howev , are awar that the uae and bahrain are not go to take drastic measur , such as recal their ambassador from israel . by contrast , the pa leadership appear to be content with the crisi that erupt thi week between israel and jordan in the aftermath of the violenc at the templ mount . sinc the begin of the tension at the holi site , the pa and jordan have been hold intens discuss on & ldquo ; defend & rdquo ; al - aqsa mosqu and & ldquo ; thwart & rdquo ; israel & rsquo ; s alleg attempt to alter the statu quo . the feel in ramallah is that the jordanian are the onli one who are side with the palestinian . & ldquo ; the state of palestin commend the courag jordanian stanc express by king abdullah of jordan and the jordanian govern , parliament and peopl in defend jerusalem and the christian and islam holi site , & rdquo ; the pa said in a statement issu by it foreign ministri . & ldquo ; the state of palestin and it peopl highli appreci the diplomat activ led by king abdullah to expos the isra aggress on al - aqsa mosqu . & rdquo ; the pa and jordan , nonetheless , have good reason to be worri about the event of the past week . the violenc that erupt at the templ mount ha shown that ramallah and amman have littl influenc , if ani , over the young men and women who clash with the isra secur forc . the jordanian - control wakf islam religi trust , which is respons for administ the islam holi site in jerusalem , fail to stop dozen of rioter from enter the mosqu with stone and firework . the wakf ha dozen of secur guard station at the templ mount , but they did not interven to stop the rioter and thug from sneak into the mosqu . similarli , the pa , which ha it own support and repres at the templ mount , did not do anyth to stop the rioter from storm into al - aqsa mosqu with a larg cach of stone and other object . on the eve of ramadan , some isra and us offici approach the pa and jordan and ask them to work toward prevent an outbreak of violenc in jerusalem , particularli the templ mount . but instead of appeal for calm , ramallah and amman ramp up their rhetor attack on israel , warn that allow jew to enter the templ mount would ignit & ldquo ; religi war & rdquo ; and plung the entir region into a fresh cycl of violenc . the pa and jordan do not feel comfort admit that support of hama and other extremist group are the one who call the shot at the templ mount . it & rsquo ; s easier for ramallah and amman to hold israel sole respons for the violenc than denounc the rioter who desecr al - aqsa mosqu . in fact , the pa and jordan seem to have score a diplomat and propaganda achiev by convinc mani in the intern commun that it wa israel that plan and initi the violenc . while the violenc seem to have serv abba & rsquo ; s goal of shift the blame toward israel , he nevertheless appear worri that he wa exclud from the first stage of the mediat effort to restor calm . instead of talk to abba , the egyptian , qatari and the unit nation chose to negoti with hama leader ismail haniyeh , who is base in qatar . accord to palestinian sourc , abba wa & ldquo ; furiou & rdquo ; for be sidelin by the mediat , mainli becaus thi allow hama to score more point with the palestinian public and gain more legitimaci in the intern arena . abdullah , for hi part , is worri that the violenc at the templ mount and the rise tension with israel could cost the hashemit their statu as custodian of the islam and christian holi site in jerusalem . he is well awar that palestinian teenag hurl stone at isra polic offic have more influenc than hi wakf in jerusalem . but that doe not mean that the monarch is prepar to walk away from the citi . in recent year , report have surfac that israel may allow saudi arabia and other arab and islam countri to replac the hashemit as the sole custodian of the holi site . the report are said to have anger abdullah , who ha sinc been make a huge effort to reassert the royal famili & rsquo ; s role in tend the islam and christian holi site in jerusalem . he doe not seem to be worri if hama present itself as the & ldquo ; defend & rdquo ; of jerusalem , as long as that doe not affect the hashemit & rsquo ; statu as & ldquo ; custodian & rdquo ; of the holi site . like abba , abdullah is also worri about the increas role hama and other islamist group are play at the templ mount . video and photo featur rioter wrap in hama flag and chant slogan in support of hama arch - terrorist moham deif over the past week have undoubtedli left abdullah perturb . still , he doe not seem to be worri if hama present itself as the & ldquo ; defend & rdquo ; of jerusalem , as long as that doe not affect the hashemit & rsquo ; statu as & ldquo ; custodian & rdquo ; of the holi site . in ramallah , pa offici were also unhappi to see the hama support lead the riot . there & rsquo ; s no doubt that the inflammatori statement that came from ramallah and amman befor and dure the event of the past week serv the interest of hama and other extremist in orchestr the riot at the templ mount . abba and abdullah would have been happi to see the rioter rais their photo ; instead , they got hama banner and flag , and were forc to watch and hear palestinian call on the gaza - base terrorist group to fire rocket at israel . now , it appear that abba and abdullah are desper tri to extinguish the veri fire they help ignit , not out of concern for israel & rsquo ; s secur , but out of fear of be total remov from the holi site . but becaus they don & rsquo ; t dare to speak out against the young men and women who have turn al - aqsa mosqu into a battlefield and spoil the ramadan celebr and prayer for hundr of thousand of muslim worshipp , the current strategi of the pa and jordan is to get the intern commun to exert pressur on israel to halt jewish & ldquo ; provoc . & rdquo ; even if the situat doe calm down after ramadan end ( as expect ) , it & rsquo ; s evid that the statu quo ha inde shift at the templ mount . but it & rsquo ; s not israel that ha chang the statu quo ; rather , it & rsquo ; s the shabab ( youth ) and hama who have manag to creat a new realiti in which they are now the & ldquo ; custodian & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; defend & rdquo ; of al - aqsa mosqu . & bull ;