commun minist dr . shlomo karhi announc on sunday the propos of a new regul that will protect the elderli from exploit and fraud by block incom call from abroad that are aim at steal money . thi phenomenon ha alreadi affect thousand of consum and caus sever econom damag to mani of them . thi propos regul will larg focu on protect the elderli and new immigr . karhi state , `` servic to the public in gener and consum protect , in particular , are the basi for ani action or intervent in the free market . & nbsp ; '' in most case , non - intervent in the market serv the public well , but correct action is requir in case of monopoli , exploit , and fraud . & nbsp ; '' under my leadership , the commun ministri will continu to promot a free and competit market in term of qualiti and price , protect those vulner to exploit . thi is what we did with surpris charg for call abroad , excess fee on stand order , the failur to give pension discount at the postal bank , and also here in the issu of exploit . '' increas in attempt telephon fraud sinc start of waraccord to report by the commun ministri , sinc the start of the war , there ha been a sharp increas in telephon fraud attempt , mainli target the elderli popul , especi among russian - speak immigr . & nbsp ; these activ can target both commerci and public entiti by util their phone number as identifi , make call to subscrib appear on their phone screen as origin from legitim sourc . the impostor aim to steal person and credit inform from the victim or persuad them to make variou financi transfer under fals pretens . & nbsp ; typic , thi scheme unfold when the impostor alleg that the victim ' s bank account or credit card have been compromis . they then insist that the victim withdraw their fund and transfer them , ostens to secur polic account or coerc them into divulg password and sensit inform . alongsid the polic , the commun ministri is work to prevent the display & nbsp ; of fals number on cellular devic . follow an increas in scam attempt , which primarili affect the elderli popul , and in continu of prevent activ carri out by relev author , the commun ministri publish on sunday a draft amend to regul in which provis are consid to mitig the phenomenon of imperson of law enforc agenc and compani use their phone number . & nbsp ; the draft regul under consider includ a provis state that an intern servic provid must block call origin from outsid israel if the caller ' s number is an isra landlin . addit , it stipul that a mobil phone servic provid should block call from outsid the state of israel if the caller ' s number is a mobil phone , except for it roam custom . further , a servic provid will not allow it subscrib to use number that are not alloc for their use . follow the necessari prepar period of sever month , the chang to thi draft regul are expect to take effect dure the come year to ensur comprehens protect for the public .