elitzur raml captur the israel women & rsquo ; s basketbal championship after defeat harold lev jerusalem 84 - 60 , win it third titl in a row with a clean 3 - 0 sweep in the final . & nbsp ; host raml came into game 3 after just clip the red 95 - 94 in game 2 , and it wa clear from the get - go that the yellow - and - black had no interest in make a return trip to the capit for a fourth game . & nbsp ; jessica jackson , jenni simm , tzlil vaturi , and eden rotberg came out fli for danni gutt & rsquo ; s squad as the host took an insurmount 44 - 23 halftim lead and never look back to run away with the win . & nbsp ; rotberg score 19 point , jackson ad 17 point , and simm check in with a tripl - doubl of 12 point , 11 rebound , and 10 assist in the win . breanna richardson score 20 point , while stashi carey chip in with 18 point for jerusalem in the loss . & nbsp ; gutt , who wa soak from head to toe follow the game , spoke about the victori . & ldquo ; i have been a part of mani titl & ndash ; whether it wa with david blatt , maccabi tel aviv , 3x3 championship , and other & ndash ; but thi wa the sweetest of them all becaus thi wa one wa as a head coach and one that wa for an entir season . we had a bit of a slump when we lost the cup , but we got over that , and we came into the semifin and final with all of our strength . we deserv it as we were the no . 1 team throughout the entir season , and we had to prove that in these six playoff game , and that & rsquo ; s what we did . & rdquo ; the key to the wina for the key to the win , gutt repeat one word : & ldquo ; defens , defens , defens , and defens . we knew that in order to beat jerusalem , we had to keep their point total down , and if we want to win a titl , it had to be via our defens . i & rsquo ; m happi that the team put in an incred perform . our squad left their heart on the court , and win the championship wa the result . & rdquo ; jerusalem bench boss limor peleg , who pick up the coach of the season award , spoke about the game and about wrap up a success campaign for the first - year premier leagu squad . & ldquo ; not the way we want to end the season , but we gave it all we had . i don & rsquo ; t know what happen in thi game and we all had a veri long week , all of israel did . i don & rsquo ; t know if we were tire if it wa just go down 0 - 2 & ndash ; i have no answer . put thi game asid , i am realli proud of the team . they went abov all expect of themselv , the club , and the team . we won the state cup , took second place , and made it to the final , so i & rsquo ; m realli proud of everyth they did thi year . & rdquo ; rotberg , who wa name mvp , wa at a loss for word as to how excit she wa to win the championship . & ldquo ; i & rsquo ; m super happi ; thi wa amaz . from the first moment , we came in to win , and we deserv it . thi wa a crazi seri , and we expect that . i & rsquo ; m so proud of everyon . the cup loss seem to wake everyon up , and it & rsquo ; s too bad that we lost that game , but that & rsquo ; s sport , and we were abl to overcom that to win thi titl . we work super hard thi season , but i have to remind everyon that there are hostag be held in gaza and that we are still at war . so i & rsquo ; m happi that we were abl to give peopl the chanc to smile and enjoy some sport dure thi tough time . & rdquo ;