at least three anti - govern protest were injur after be run over by a driver dure demonstr in tel aviv on saturday night , accord to polic . one of the protest wa in moder condit , while at least two other were lightli injur , accord to magen david adom . אירוע חריג בהפגנה לשחרור חטופים : אדם הגיע ברכב ודרס מפגינים , אישה כבת 50 נפצעה באורח בינוני , מצבם של שניים נוספים - קל | תיעוד הדריסה ( צילום : איתי רזיאל ) @ hadasgrinberg pic . twitter . com / u4dfjflndi & mdash ; כאן חדשות ( @ kann_new ) april 6 , 2024footag from the scene show the driver and passeng yell at polic and protest befor speed forward and drive over sever peopl . the driver wa later arrest . שימו לב - המשטרה האשימה את המפגינים בתקיפת שוטרת . רואים כאן בסרטון השלכת מפגין על ידי שוטר לכיוון השוטרת ופגיעה בה pic . twitter . com / ks918c2koc & mdash ; לירי בורק שביט ( @ lirishavit ) april 6 , 2024earlier in the even , polic said that a group of rioter began illeg block road at the end of a legal protest in tel aviv , light bonfir and attack polic offic . the polic ad that an offic wa injur and requir treatment after a protest wa push at her . initi , the polic had assert that the offic wa punch in the face by a protest , but they correct their statement after a video wa publish onlin show a polic offic swing the protest directli toward the injur offic without ani incid of the offic be punch . anti - govern protest clash with polic in tel aviv . ( credit : israel polic ) '' unfortun , a hand of demonstr came with the aim of confront the polic with sever violenc and not protest legitim , '' said israel polic . `` we take serious the violat of the peac , which caus the polic to divert forc that are engag in secur task and maintain public safeti . we will act with zero toler toward those who disrupt the order and behav violent toward polic offic . '' protest blame govern for hit and runth kaplan forc protest movement express outrag at the hit - and - run incid on saturday night , note that just a few hour befor the incid , transport minist miri regev accus the protest of want to murder prime minist benjamin netanyahu . '' the write is alreadi on the fenc ; there are peopl there with torch to assassin and kill the prime minist , '' said regev in comment to n12 ' s meet the press program on saturday in refer to the protest that have been take place in recent week in jerusalem and tel aviv . '' not onli the blood of 1 , 400 murder peopl are on the hand of thi govern , but also the blood of the wound now in tel aviv , '' said the kaplan forc after the incid in tel aviv . `` the govern of the destruct of the hous must go , and the peopl of israel are determin to win the fight for the futur of the countri . opposit leader yair lapid accus the govern of incit the hit - and - run incid on saturday night . `` we will not be deter and will not be made to stop protest until the hostag are return and thi terribl govern fall , '' said lapid . minist - without - portfolio benni gantz condemn the hit - and - run incid , say , `` we all need to make clear statement condemn all violenc . '' '' compar the protest to our enemi and accus them of want to assassin the prime minist show a lack of nation respons , '' ad gantz . `` it would be appropri for all public leader to behav sensit to all part of societi , especi in these difficult day . i would like to wish a full recoveri to the wound , and i call on everyon - we must not go back to the day befor octob 7 . '' regev respond to the hit - and - run incid as well on saturday night , say , `` i condemn violenc from ani side , '' and point to `` the seriou hit - and - run incid tonight , the protest who attack the secur forc and also those who tri to break into the prime minist ' s hous with burn torch . '' the organ of an anti - govern protest in tel aviv report that over 100 , 000 protest arriv at kaplan street , walla report on saturday . furthermor , there were demonstr in over 50 addit area across the countri . in respons to the event of saturday night , at the cabinet meet on sunday , the prime minist said that he `` condemn ani manifest of violenc - riot , violat of the law , trampl protest , attack polic offic , and wild incit to violenc on social media . `` & nbsp ; '' i said in the cabinet meet , and i repeat in the govern : countri rise in uniti and fall in divis , '' netanyahu said . & nbsp ;