`` sinc he wa diagnos , thi is my war , & rdquo ; meirav funi told me . her 10 - year - old son , neidav , wa diagnos with leukemia in decemb , and they had been live at schneider & ndash ; children & rsquo ; s medic center while he receiv treatment . & nbsp ; i met meirav at the zichron menachem annual four - wheel trip , now in it 11th year . the land rover tour wa locat in the ben shemen forest , an area full of tree , field , and rocki terrain . our land rover wa number 13 . our driver & rsquo ; s name wa zion , and he onli had one hand . he lost hi other hand in an accid in the idf . he said he doesn & rsquo ; t let it stop him from live hi life . & nbsp ; as we drove over the rock embed in the ground , i ask meirav about neidav . meirav ha four children ; her oldest is 17 . their famili live in beit aryeh . & nbsp ; the week befor the trip , neidav finish hi treatment . & ldquo ; we beat cancer , we beat it , & rdquo ; meirav said proudli . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; neidav is 10 , but ha a mind like a 50 - year - old , & rdquo ; she said . she recount that throughout hi treatment he had stay posit , with the understand that there wa no other option but to fight . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; it wa all in the head ; there wa no other option but to win . & rdquo ; meirav said he knew everyth that wa go on , and hi sibl knew as well . when they learn that neidav wa go to lose hi hair , the famili threw a parti . hi brother , be & rsquo ; eri , and hi father both decid to shave their head with neidav so he wouldn & rsquo ; t be alon . be & rsquo ; eri sat with us in the land rover . howev , neidav wa not with us becaus he had a fever . part of the effect of leukemia is an extrem weak immun system . as a result of thi , neidav ha not been abl to attend school . meirav believ he will catch up , though . she said that neidav is veri smart . & ldquo ; he learn english all by himself from tv show , & rdquo ; she said proudli . & nbsp ; neidav had to undergo chemotherapi for five month . hi mother confid that it had been an extrem difficult time , but that neidav had continu tri to be posit . now that the treatment is over , they can final see the light at the end of the tunnel . & nbsp ; when we got out of the land rover , there wa a barbecu wait for us with all type of meat , salad , and chip . all the kid were hand water gun , along with the volunt & ndash ; who were either in high school or do nation servic . dure the water fight , nobodi wa spare . then , the volunt led the kid in song i knew from summer camp . one young man had drum , and other held children on their shoulder . they all stood in a circl sing and danc while their parent sat around , talk and relax . there were kid of all age , rang from all sector of isra societi , from secular to haredi . as i stood watch , i wa approach by tomer baum , a parent i had spoken on the earli morn bu ride from schneider hospit in petah tikva to the forest . & nbsp ; tomer had told me about hi son yair , who is 13 year old and wa diagnos with hodgkin lymphoma in decemb 2023 . yair wa at a summer camp in the unit state , but tomer brought hi son aviv on the land rover tour . while yair had been undergo treatment at sheba medic center , aviv wa veri scare and stress , tomer explain . & nbsp ; yair & rsquo ; s treatment last six month . in addit to chemo , yair & rsquo ; s doctor also attempt addit treatment . tomer talk about the scariest day at thi hospit for him , when the doctor tri to give yair a & ldquo ; biolog & rdquo ; treatment . when the nurs left the room , yair stop breath , tomer recal . & ldquo ; he turn purpl . & rdquo ; it turn out that yair wa have an allerg reaction to the medicin , caus the doctor to immedi ceas the treatment . for tomer , it wa the & ldquo ; worst day ever . & rdquo ; now yair is in remiss , but the next five year are crucial , a period dure which the diseas could reappear . & nbsp ; tomer said that know yair had a trip to the us to look forward to dure hi treatment had given him hope . as aviv wa also scare and stress dure hi brother & rsquo ; s treatment , thi land rover trip wa a way for him to have fun , relax , and be a kid , hi father said . volunteeringi also spoke to bram , a high school student who ha been volunt with zichron menachem for a year and a half . as well as go on trip and help at summer camp , he also assist individu famili . & nbsp ; bram told me about a famili with five children that he began help after the outbreak of the war with hama . the father wa on reserv duti , and the mother wa studi to be a doctor . one of the kid had cancer . & ldquo ; it felt like the hous wa fall apart , & rdquo ; he share . & ldquo ; i wa just tri to hold the hous togeth . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; bram said that sinc the war began , there have not been enough volunt , and mani who use to travel to hospit or to help individu famili could no longer do so . & nbsp ; zichron menachem ha sever hundr volunt . the organ wa found 34 year ago by chaim and miri ehrent , whose son menachem battl cancer for over 14 year . accord to the founder , the organ believ that the emot well - be of hi / her famili is crucial to a child & rsquo ; s heal process . zichron menachem run a rehabilit educ social day center , a hospit center for famili , studi program , and club and workshop & ndash ; as well as annual vacat camp abroad for children dure winter and summer break , and a spring camp for parent of children with cancer . zichron menachem also offer famili vacat and fun day throughout the year . anoth aspect of the organ & rsquo ; s activ is relat to medic care . thi includ organ and fund variou therapi and treatment , home assist , a blood donor registri , wig - fit , and more . recent , it establish a blood collect center for oncolog patient . addit , for the past 12 year , in collabor with the panten hair product brand , zichron menachem ha been run the hair for hope project , which collect hair donat to provid free wig for cancer patient . when i ask bram whi he continu to volunt , hi answer wa : & ldquo ; there is a lot of satisfact . i can feel the effect i have on the kid . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; he ad that they also have an effect on him . & ldquo ; i pay more attent to what i say . i & rsquo ; ve becom more emot intellig , & rdquo ; he said . & nbsp ; at the end of the trip , parent had to drag their kid home , sop wet from the water fight . the volunt , also sop wet , grin from ear to ear . they kept ask me , & ldquo ; did you have fun ? & rdquo ; & ldquo ; of cours , & rdquo ; i repli . 