outsid the window of the rectangular corrug tin shig ( tradit a tent use for hospit , which in mani place ha been replac by a structur ) , a wind heavi with desert heat blow slightli and in the not - too - far distanc , a young camel of the same color stand motionless and almost impercept in the tini unrecogn bedouin villag of al - bat . here the al - qaran famili & ndash ; now total some 20 famili & ndash ; ha live their tradit life sinc 1952 . sofa and armchair line one side of the shig & ndash ; use to receiv guest & ndash ; and on the other side red , orang , black , and blue stripe rug and pillow bring color to the space . sa , one of the al - qaran brother , offer coffe from a long - handl copper finjan , hi movement slow and measur , hi dark eye unabl to disguis the pain he feel . even in hi state of mourn , the bedouin ritual of hospit is paramount . & nbsp ; just two week ago , on the first day of the war , he and hi brother were sit in a similar shig with their children , on thi littl hilltop 4 . 5 km . north of the bedouin town of kuseif , some 65 km . from gaza , when suddenli they heard a missil fli overhead and land in their anim pen . one of the brother went out to check on the pen anim , while anoth went to check on the camel . sa wa just come into the shig with the coffe finjan in hi hand when a second missil land in front of him , on the tin shig where the children were sit . the flimsi shig wa flatten as if it were liter a tin - can , buri the five boy underneath the rubbl . & nbsp ; it took the brother 15 minut to dig them out with their bare hand & ndash ; they didn & rsquo ; t have ani tool to use & ndash ; and anoth 20 minut to get them to soroka medic center in beersheba . four of the boy & ndash ; brother malek al - qaran , 14 , and jawad al - qaran , 15 , and cousin amin akal al - qaran , 16 , and mohammad d & rsquo ; ib al - qaran , 12 & ndash ; were alreadi dead by the time they got there . anoth cousin , taleb mahmoud al - qaran , 35 , wa serious wound but surviv and is be treat in a hospit in the center of the countri . ibrahim , the father of two of the boy kill in the missil attack , walk in silent , hi head wrap loos with a scarf . there is noth to say , and the two men sit silent as one , and then anoth cousin come to sit on the rug , and sa serv them coffe . the corrug tin panel that use to make up the shig where the boy die lie flat in a pile next to a new shig which ha been quickli built to replac it . & nbsp ; here , in thi isol place in the desert , their littl villag is one of some 35 unrecogn bedouin villag dot the negev desert . despit numer request to the govern from the resid , they have no air raid siren , nor are they allow to build a safe room or commun bomb shelter , so the boy had no chanc . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we have everyth we need here , & rdquo ; sa , who serv in the idf , said . & ldquo ; we just need bomb shelter . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; so far , no temporari bomb shelter have been set up for the unrecogn villag , although at the entranc of the villag the islam movement brought two larg cement pipe and place cement slab on either side & ndash ; as if that would protect anyon . accord to sa , the dead sea work potash plant put togeth a & ldquo ; shelter & rdquo ; with huge industri - size bag of dirt but no roof cover . neither shelter afford protect worth the effort of tri to reach it dure a rocket attack . some 400 , 000 bedouin live in israel in an area rang from beersheba to arad . thi includ 100 , 000 in the 35 unrecogn villag , such as al - bat , which have no electr , run water , pave road , or school infrastructur ; and 300 , 000 in seven establish town . thu the negev bedouin repres the most vulner socioeconom group in israel . & nbsp ; accord to the associ for civil right in israel , at one point there were 46 unrecogn bedouin villag . follow the state & rsquo ; s recognit of 11 of them , 35 villag in the negev still remain unrecogn , with some still in the same locat sinc befor the creation of the state of israel , and other in their current locat follow israel & rsquo ; s transfer of the resid there dure the period of militari rule . & nbsp ; sinc the hama terrorist attack on octob 7 , at least 26 bedouin citizen of israel have been kill & ndash ; 19 by hama terrorist in the kibbutzim where they were work earli on that saturday morn , and seven by hama missil . osama abu asa , a bedouin guard at the supernova concert , wa kill as he attempt to protect some of the young peopl hide in a bomb shelter , believ that hama would not kill him becaus he wa a muslim . abe alrahman ataf alzeadna , 26 , from rahat , wa among those kill by hama terrorist on zikim beach ; and four of hi rel , who were with him , are still missingtaken hostagesix bedouin who were work in the holit dairi were kidnap , includ four member of the ziadna famili : father yosef , 53 ; son hamza , 22 , and belal , 19 ; and daughter aisha , 17 . & nbsp ; in addit , said jamal al - kirnawi , a bedouin social worker and director of new dawn & ndash ; a rahat - base bedouin - jewish coexist ngo that provid program for at - risk bedouin youth & ndash ; sever bedouin soldier have been taken hostag , although how mani ha not been made offici . & nbsp ; if the attack had taken place on sunday , there would have been mani more bedouin victim , as mani are agricultur worker at the kibbutzim , he ad . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; bedouin are realli suffer , & rdquo ; al - kirnawi , 44 , said . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we were all shock by what happen on octob 7 . no one knew what wa go on . we thought it wa rocket attack like we are use to , and that soon there would be an armi respons . we were not expect anyth like thi . the societi ha been in shock & ndash ; especi the bedouin who work in the kibbutzim . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we feel veri sorri for thi loss and pain . the rocket and hama did not differenti between jew and bedouin . & rdquo ; he lost 20 close jewish friend from the kibbutzim in the terrorist attack and said he is still live in mourn , as he ha spent the week sinc the attack go from funer to funer and shiva to shiva . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; if on a daili basi we as bedouin live in a complex realiti , imagin the realiti of uncertain chao that we are live in now , & rdquo ; he said . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the war make it much wors in the complex of the societi & ndash ; how to handl thi tragic crisi . no one is abl to understand thi biggest tragedi that ha happen . we feel the suffer of the famili , and we can & rsquo ; t contain all the stori of loss . we are not in a normal situat and are process thi loss . & rdquo ; the economi of bedouin town ha shut down sinc octob 7 , and the mani bedouin who work in the kibbutzim have lost their employ . but for al - kirnawi , the most difficult thing is that as a tradit societi , mani peopl in hi commun are suffer from anxieti and trauma ; but , in addit to municip social welfar servic be shut down and the govern in gener not function , the whole concept of counsel is still not wide accept in bedouin societi , especi in the more tradit sector . & ldquo ; peopl are suffer , whether they speak about it or not , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; but in gener , bedouin societi take what is happen on the outsid and keep it insid , without interpret how that affect them [ on the insid ] . & rdquo ; he ad : & ldquo ; the concept of therapi is veri hard , and usual peopl come to therapi when they are overwhelm . so we need to be proactiv befor peopl get so overwhelm that they need major intervent . & rdquo ; trauma train for bedouin mental health workersnew dawn ha begun special trauma train for educ and mental health worker within the bedouin commun , who pay sever visit to the famili directli affect by the war reach out with mental health tool to help them cope with the loss , trauma , and anxieti they are feel , he said . & nbsp ; initi , they have train seven men and women who have gone to attend to the most vulner in five villag , and there are plan for further train session . & ldquo ; we can & rsquo ; t wait for [ govern offic ] . we , as a civil societi , are much more power [ than the govern ] , & rdquo ; he said . manar abu gosh , 25 , a resid of rahat and social worker and volunt at new dawn who ha gone through the train , ha begun visit resid of the unrecogn villag . the children are scare , and mani of the parent are in shock and not abl to function normal , she said . a missil fell near one of the villag while she wa there , she note . & ldquo ; we heard the sound of the missil , but we didn & rsquo ; t know where to run . the children were terrifi , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; they are in a panic . & rdquo ; the men , who work larg in agricultur , are now unemploy , and the children can & rsquo ; t particip in the remot video class becaus they have no internet servic nor tablet , abu gosh said . & ldquo ; they are , after all , citizen who want to live in peac and quiet , & rdquo ; she said . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the men do not want to talk about how they are feel , but the women and children come and speak about their worri and fear . honestli , i came home and cri . it wa the first time i wa ever in an unrecogn villag . i wa shock by what is happen to them . they are in a terribl situat . but i will continu to go to speak with them . it is not easi for ani of us . & rdquo ; presid isaac herzog visit the bedouin situat room in rahat on octob 26 , where jewish and arab isra are work togeth to provid care packag for the most needi of the area & rsquo ; s resid , and met with commun leader and famili of the miss and murder of the commun , includ repres of the ziadna famili . & ldquo ; we will continu to live togeth , and it is import for me to tell the entir arab societi in israel how much i appreci the respons shown across the commun in these difficult day , & rdquo ; he told them on octob 26 . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we deepli share in their grief . i came to offer my sympathi to the famili , and we will meet with them again . we came to offer strength to the local author and to hear what is import to them . we came to tell everyon : we will continu to live togeth and continu to live in peac . & ldquo ; what we saw on octob 7 doe not repres islam . islam is a religion of respect , sensit , brotherhood , and love . & rdquo ; quiet vigil for four famili membersa few day befor the presid & rsquo ; s visit , in the ziadna neighborhood of rahat & ndash ; a conglomer of tin hut and small garden outsid of rahat & ndash ; the uncl , brother , and nephew of yosef ziadna , kidnap along with hi three children , sit on white plastic chair in a larg circl in a vigil outsid a home . the young men all sport beard and are power built , but in their eye are broken spirit , wait to hear about their love one . at the time of the visit , all four & ndash ; includ daughter aisha , who wear the tradit muslim hijab & ndash ; were presum to be held hostag in gaza . yosef & rsquo ; s brother salem had also been at the holit dairi on octob 7 with hi four young children as everi saturday , take the youngster on a & ldquo ; fun day & rdquo ; to see the cow . he describ how for 12 harrow hour he evad the terrorist by hide and dart through the dairi with hi four terrifi children , carri the two the littlest one in hi arm . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; i heard shoot all the time . my children were so scare , they kept veri quiet . twice they captur us but i wa abl to escap , but sadli yosef and hi children were captur , & rdquo ; he said . though an uncl is hesit about speak to the press , salem said he want the stori of hi escap to be publish in as mani media outlet as possibl , in the rare possibl that perhap yosef or hi children will see it and then know that he and hi children are safe . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; he is probabl worri about us , too . i want to let him know that we are safe and got out . & rdquo ; bedouin rescuer save 70 at supernovaon that black saturday morn , as revel from the supernova danc festiv were frantic tri to escap from the onslaught of the hama attack , hame alkarnawi and hi famili member rafi , ismail , and dahish & ndash ; all of rahat & ndash ; rush to the scene with their truck when their cousin hisham , who work in the dine room of kibbutz be & rsquo ; eri , call them to tell them he and kibbutz member aya meidan & ndash ; who had gone out for a bike ride in the earli morn & ndash ; were surround by hama terrorist . & nbsp ; the rescuer have declin media interview , but in a power video produc by have you seen the horizon late ? & ndash ; an initi promot jewish - arab partnership & ndash ; meidan and the alkarnawi recount the dare rescu they undertook . under fire , they first rescu some 40 young peopl from the supernova parti whom they encount on their way to be & rsquo ; eri hide from the hama terrorist , and then made their way to rescu hisham and aya . minivan driver yosef el zaidneh , 47 , also of the unrecogn neighborhood of ziadna , who risk hi life to save peopl from the parti , ha becom an unlik media hero after one of the peopl he rescu prais him and post hi phone number on social media to bring him more costum . & nbsp ; el zaidneh describ himself as a & ldquo ; regular person , & rdquo ; who never serv in the armi , just someon who goe out everi morn to work and come home in the even to hi wife and children . that saturday at 1 a . m . , he took a regular custom and eight friend from omer to the supernova danc parti near kibbutz re & rsquo ; im with instruct to return to pick them up later , at 1 p . m . but shortli after 6 a . m . , hi phone began to ring incessantli and when hi custom , amit , told him there wa a red alert of missil , he told him he would be there in 20 minut . but as he approach the junction to kibbutz sa & rsquo ; ad , he saw car come toward him and peopl motion him to go back . & ldquo ; it is the first time in my life i have been afraid , & rdquo ; he said , but he continu through the gunfir and wa abl to rescu 30 young isra as he pack twice the number of passeng allow into hi minivan . he knew the terrain near the kibbutz well and made hi way through the field to safeti , forg a way for other car to follow him . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; there wa not one soldier there ; i saw wound polic . i knew if we went on the road to re & rsquo ; im , they would kill us . & rdquo ; when they eventu reach a roadblock man by isra polic , they were direct to kibbutz tze & rsquo ; elim . sadli , hi cousin , abe al - rahman alnasarah , 50 , also a minivan driver , wa kill by the terrorist as he attempt to reach the parti to rescu isra there . sinc that morn el zaidneh , the father of seven children , ha not been abl to sleep , and the horrif scene of death and destruct keep replay in hi head . & nbsp ; he spend the night chain smoke and drink coffe , sit outsid on the swing in hi fenc - in yard in front of hi corrug tin hut , pray for the morn to come . he saw thing peopl should never have to see , he said . he ha receiv threaten phone call origin in gaza from peopl claim to be from hama who say they will find him becaus he rescu isra . he ha report the call to the polic , and hi phone is under surveil for ani more threaten call that come in , he said . he ha been go to daili therapi session to help deal with the trauma . & nbsp ; el zaidneh ha also receiv mani phone call from peopl who want to donat money to him or give him present , he said , but he is not interest in ani of that and often doe not even answer hi phone anymor unless he recogn the number . he did not do what he did for ani sort of recognit , he said . & ldquo ; i had the chanc to turn around . but abov all , i am a human be , and i am an isra and i knew there were isra citizen [ in danger ] . if i can help , whi not ? that is how our parent rais us . to do good if we can , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; i hope after thi , the mayor of omer & ndash ; who doe not like us & ndash ; and the state of israel will appreci the bedouin and stop destroy our hous and see that we are a part of thi countri . & ldquo ; we are not hama . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; i hope that the countri will now think about us ; help the bedouin develop in educ , in cultur . mayb we won & rsquo ; t be 100 % equal , but at least 70 % equal . & rdquo ;  video of the supernova rescu : x . com / horizon_l / statu / 1720905755371405633 ? t = kczvuclfm7y2_bsm2v13ra & amp ; s = 08