palestinian detaine held in isra prison under administr detent have decid to go on an & ldquo ; open - end & rdquo ; hunger strike in the next few day , a committe repres the inmat announc over the weekend . the committe call on the detaine who are plan to join the hunger strike to start & ldquo ; write their will . & rdquo ; palestinian sourc say more than 1 , 000 detaine are current be held in isra prison under administr detent , a procedur that allow the secur forc to hold suspect on the basi of classifi inform without charg them or bring them to trial . most of the administr detaine are former secur prison who spent time in isra prison for secur - relat offens and terror , the sourc note . & nbsp ; previou hunger strike & nbsp ; last year , dozen of administr detaine went on a 19 - day hunger strike in protest of the polici of administr detent . the detaine claim they decid to suspend the hunger strike after receiv promis from the isra author to look into their demand . & nbsp ; also last year , hundr of palestinian administr detaine boycot isra court as part of a campaign to put pressur on israel to end the polici . & nbsp ; the plan hunger strike aim to exert pressur on israel regard the issu of administr detent and protest against the death of senior palestinian islam jihad detaine khader adnan , who die in isra custodi last week after an 86 - day hunger strike , the committe said in a letter reportedli smuggl from one of the prison . & nbsp ; it did not set a date for the start of the hunger strike . & nbsp ; in respons to the death of adnan , 44 , palestinian terror group in the gaza strip last week fire more than 100 rocket at israel befor an unoffici ceasefir wa announc with the help of egypt , qatar and the unit nation . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we have becom certain beyond doubt that the occup and the shin bet ( israel & rsquo ; s intern secur agenc ) can & rsquo ; t provid posit result on the level of the administr detent file unless they come under real pressur , & rdquo ; the committe said . it point out that effort to solv the issu of administr detent began two year ago with hunger strike and boycott of isra court . accord to the committe , the administr detaine & rsquo ; decis to declar a hunger strike wa taken after & ldquo ; round - the - clock consult and coordin & rdquo ; with repres of the palestinian faction in the west bank and gaza strip . & ldquo ; we are face a histor moment and we must take advantag of it , & rdquo ; the committe said . a leader of the palestinian secur prison held in isra jail wa quot on saturday as say that a larg number of inmat belong to hama and other palestinian faction would take part in the hunger strike . the unnam leader , who wa quot by the hama - affili palestin inform center , said the detaine who are plan to take part in the hunger strike were on a & ldquo ; suicid & rdquo ; mission . & ldquo ; the decis to go on hunger strike wa taken after the martyrdom of sheikh khader adnan , & rdquo ; he said . zaher jabareen , a member of the hama polit bureau , said the palestinian and their & ldquo ; resist & rdquo ; group stand behind the administr detaine in their & ldquo ; battl & rdquo ; against the isra author . jabareen held the isra author fulli respons for the consequ of the plan hunger strike and restrict impos on all the palestinian secur prison .