some 15 , 000 peopl attend the yearli isra - palestinian remembr day ceremoni in tel aviv on monday even , organ by combat for peac and the parent - circl famili forum . the event in tel aviv & rsquo ; s hayarkon park wa origin plan for 10 , 000 attende . despit some disturb from a group of heckler who were kept away by polic offic , the ceremoni proceed without notabl incid . right - wing activist attempt to disturb joint ceremonya group of about 20 activist stood outsid of the event area and attempt to disturb the ceremoni by shout slogan such as , & ldquo ; leftist traitor , & rdquo ; & ldquo ; shame , & rdquo ; & ldquo ; wors than terrorist & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; 64 mandat , & rdquo ; the n12 news site report . the ceremoni featur sever music piec , includ a record by marcu mumford from the band mumford & amp ; son , as well as a video clip record by yehonatan geffen two week befor hi death . & ldquo ; today & rsquo ; s ceremoni is more import than ever , & rdquo ; prof . neta ziv , vice presid for equiti , divers and commun at tel aviv univers , said in a speech . & ldquo ; evil spirit , extremist and racist , are blow these day from offici center of power in israel , and the purveyor of the evil spirit occupi key posit in the govern . they preach jewish supremaci and work to deepen the occup . they seek to widen the divid and sow hatr between the palestinian and isra peopl . & rdquo ; yusra mahfouz from nablu , whose son wa kill by a stray bullet in 2000 , said : & ldquo ; in the first day after i lost my son , i felt the need to take reveng , until one day peopl from the parent - circl famili forum came to us . at first , i reject outright ani possibl of sit face - to - face with the enemi who took my son . but slowli over time i began to particip , and i becam activ in the forum . i met peopl in my situat , isra and palestinian . & ldquo ; the desir for reveng wa replac by the desir for peac and a better futur . i turn to the mother who are watch me now . the bereav is the same bereav ; the pain is the same pain . today , we see more than ever whi we need to act togeth . may we all live in peac . & rdquo ; the controversi surround palestinian attendanceparticip in the event by west bank palestinian wa in doubt when defens minist yoav gallant said they would not be abl to enter israel over secur concern . palestinian & rsquo ; movement in and out of variou territori would be extrem restrict on remembr day due to the current heighten secur situat , he said . hi decis spark controversi , and attorney - gener gali baharav - miara issu a legal opinion to the high court of justic , say gallant had act against legal preced by deni palestinian entri to israel to particip in the event . her opinion wa confirm by the court befor the ceremoni . michael starr contribut to thi stori .