against the backdrop of the ongo 46th day of the war against hama , the question aris of how the terrorist organ perceiv the larg - scale ground oper carri out by the idf in the gaza strip . in a convers with yinon magal and barak seri on 103fm , zvi yehezk , the head of the arab desk at channel 13 , comment on the mindset of hama sinc the outbreak of the conflict . what were they think when they commit the horrif massacr on octob 7 ? '' kill jew is yahya sinwar ' s strongest instinct . we are current in the midst of a militari oper , with the armi activ engag , showcas an incred fight spirit . '' now , let ' s discuss the futur . as long as there is a polit entiti in the gaza strip , you will alway have hama . you can not erad hama ; it ' s deepli engrain in the palestinian ident , more so than fatah or anyth els . if the situat in the north gaza strip were to replic itself in the south gaza strip & ndash ; with refuge seek protect elsewher and find host countri & ndash ; leav the gaza strip without hama and a larg popul will be imposs . '' it ' s either hama or the peopl . eventu , whoever govern the gaza strip will never accept your exist . no palestinian , in ani form , neither the palestinian author nor a reform author , will acknowledg your presenc . '' what do you propos for the day after ? '' what ha happen in gaza can also happen in the west bank . we have a zero - sum game with the palestinian , and if we fail to realiz thi , it will consum us . even in judea and samaria , my friend , it ' s just a matter of time . '' just ask the resid of settlement ; they know thi is come their way . palestinian pass by the fenc warn us , ' we will do to you what they did to you in gaza . ' i receiv call from haredi individu live in beitar illit , tell me , ' the arab are come , and gaza is a precursor . ' '' understand that someth ha fundament chang regard palestinian exist . they have achiev what nasrallah did in 2000 ; they manag to enter , kill , and massacr , and we did noth . '' doe wit the ongo event in gaza not make them think twice ? '' their concern is not for the resid . yahya sinwar doesn ' t care that two million peopl have becom refuge . it simpli doesn ' t matter to him . he believ it is a nobl caus , someth greater than himself , and it would be a miscalcul if he doesn ' t pursu it . '' henc , even if you push it toward the west bank , even if it ' s true that abu mazen doesn ' t incit them for jihad , the public will . is jenin no longer like gaza ? is nablu no longer like gaza ? these are small place that have embrac jihad . jihad hold greater signific for them than anyth els , even if it bring them down and backfir . '' yehezk also said , `` gaza , befor the massacr , wa in a state of develop . they built infrastructur and thrive build . yet , they are will to destroy all of it , reduc it to rubbl , just to fight you . they know that eventu , you will feel remors over their situat and leav . '' there ' s an arab say , ' if you want your stock to rise , deal with a jew . they will alway take care of you . ' the merci of the jew is someth arab prais & ndash ; their compass . they know we won ' t turn the tabl ; they know we are merci . a soldier said to me , ' jew kill to surviv , while arab live to kill . ' that ' s the differ . '' '' everi day the token fall to us , we are in the middl east . thi war is not a month or two , i think someth strateg ha happen here , the state of israel is about to go through a huge process for the next few year . you will not stop see soldier here in reserv and with weapon . '' thi will not end friend , it will not end in gaza , it will continu to judea and samaria . we have mani more arena . what , do you think that nasrallah ha finish hi stori ? '' he ask . part of the argument for not launch a preemptiv strike and a second front against nasrallah and hezbollah wa that `` we will dismantl hama `` so that those in the north will see what we are do and not want to enter . are you say it make no impress on them ? '' if you end gaza in a ' wow ' way , everyon will step back and say , ' listen , the jew did someth that is beyond their natur , and that ' s it . ' '' what is beyond natur ? '' what is beyond natur ? that no palestinian refuge remain in the gaza strip . '' what ? where will the two million go ? '' 200 , 000 to 10 countri , what ' s the problem ? germani took in four million syrian refuge , europ took in anoth two million , lebanon took in two million from assad , jordan took in egypt . those who protect the palestinian all the time , what ' s the problem if they take some palestinian ? what ' s the problem ? whi can ' t they ? '' you will not be abl to establish your control and for the state of israel to be safe , as long as you have an entiti there that will alway threaten you . or you will onc again build shield and protect room , etc . '' how is dahlan ? is he plan to return to gaza ? '' i don ' t know . he ' s a star in israel and among the american , but i think they don ' t understand either . everyon who took care of the gaza strip in recent year must hold themselv account . '' assist in the prepar of the articl : amitai doak , 103fm