israel defens and secur forum ceo lt . col . ( re . ) yaron buskila spoke recent with yoav minitz on radio north 104 . 5fm and refer to the futur of the conflict with the terrorist organ hezbollah on the northern border . buskila state , `` the north is face the issu of uav , which seem like a kind of russian roulett . how can the secur system deal with thi . '' to explain whi occasion there are no siren , hezbollah learn to oper with uav at a low altitud close to the ground . becaus of thi , the uav is not identifi , and hezbollah manag to oper them and attack befor the isra detect and identif system oper . thi ha becom a challeng for us , but we continu to face hezbollah as we have in recent year in a symmetr manner . for everi attack they launch at us , we retali proport . '' thi is not how to deal with a terror organ , certainli not at thi stage . hezbollah understand that we are in negoti over the hostag , and they want to pressur the state of israel . we must not play into their hand . thi is exactli the time to take action against hezbollah and lebanon as a countri and attack civilian infrastructur . hezbollah is also subject to social and public pressur within lebanon . '' which infrastructur and target are worth it for israel to attack ? & nbsp ; '' if we do not know how to attack such civilian infrastructur that the lebanes societi will put pressur on hezbollah , we will not come out of thi . we need to escal matter long ago . the econom interest they had with the ga agreement need to be cancel immedi and transfer to our hand as one of the first step in respons to hezbollah ' s activ . the economi in lebanon is so fragil that the last thing they need is escal and entri into a war from israel , which will destroy the lebanes economi . buskila continu , `` we are at war . ani target within lebanon that caus pressur on lebanes societi is legitim . it could be an airport , energi area , and other . these are part of the step taken in war , and we are at war . we are in a fate year that will determin the futur of the state of israel in term of secur in the next 50 year . the sharper thi war becom and the more signific the achiev , the more peac we will acquir in the come year . '' '' the state of israel and the secur system are afraid to carri out attack for fear that hezbollah may achiev long - rang target , farther than haifa and hadera . as ofer shelah wrote in hi book , the courag to win , even win requir courag . it also requir the abil to absorb , but ultim , whoever ha endur and abil and know hi right is the one who win . ''