after countless oper in the gaza strip where the armi fail at legitim it action , the idf ha publish sever militari site use by hama in the heart of urban area . the site , includ a weapon warehous next to shifa hospit as well as sever mosqu , will like be target in a futur conflict between the two side . the idf ha been highli critic dure militari oper in the dens popul gaza strip , both abroad and in israel . dure last year & rsquo ; s 11 - day oper guardian of the wall , the militari wa condemn for a strike that target the 12 - stori al - jalaa tower in gaza citi , which hous ap & rsquo ; s offic , among other . dure last year & rsquo ; s conflict , israel also target what they describ as hama & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; metro & rdquo ; network of underground tunnel . the strike on the underground network , 60 km . long , caus some home to collaps , kill close to 60 peopl , includ children . though the oper destroy what the idf consid wa a hama & ldquo ; backbon & rdquo ; & ndash ; where it command could move troop and weapon and direct attack against israel & ndash ; the militari wa critic for the civilian death . an assess by airwar , which track all civilian harm by all foreign actor in syria and other conflict , found that between 56 - 68 civilian were kill dure the strike target the & ldquo ; metro , & rdquo ; with at least 25 children have been kill . anoth 168 civilian were injur . idf investig pr issuesfollow the may conflict , the idf open an investig into public relat - relat issu connect to the conflict and began to work on better coordin it public advocaci effort with it action dure war . & nbsp ; while it & rsquo ; s a complex effort , the militari believ that legitim it action even befor war would provid it with more freedom of action when conflict break out . defens offici said that while the militari doe not see anoth war break out , prepar for anoth round of conflict in the strip are conduct regularli . on wednesday share with both foreign and local press sever site use by the terror group that are militari target . among the site disclos to journalist on wednesday wa a tunnel use to store weapon and and move fighter in gaza citi ' s tuffah neighborhood next to a now - close pepsi factori that close follow last year & rsquo ; s war as well as close to a unrwa & nbsp ; elementari school which is use as an emerg shelter for some 2 , 500 peopl in time of hostil . anoth tunnel use by hama in the zabara neighborhood of gaza citi identifi by the idf on wednesday is under a unwra school and a central ambul center with 14 ambul as well as a medic equip storag complex . the tunnel also run under a church and school that are use as shelter dure hostil . anoth site is a tunnel entri shaft that wa expos dure last year & rsquo ; s conflict near the al - azar univers in gaza citi which ha about 20 , 000 student . accord to the idf , the tunnel entri shaft lead to a network of subterranean tunnel that branch throughout the tel - hawa area southwest of gaza citi and is also close to a polic station , a unwra school , medic clinic , mosqu , a commun center and unrwa & rsquo ; s headquart in the area . accord to the idf , hama ha a munit product facil locat in a build that is also use as a residenti build . the site , which contain explos and flammabl materi that would caus extrem damag should it explod , is 45 meter from a mosqu , 55 meter from a unrwa clinic that is use as a triag and primari screen center , and 60 meter from shifa hospit . shifa is consid the blockad enclav & rsquo ; s main hospit and treat thousand of patient daili . but it ha also been use by the terror group for year , includ in the 2009 oper cast lead , when senior hama offici hid in the build . it also use the hospit in 2014 dure oper protect edg as it main headquart . the idf also share the locat of a munit warehous use by hama insid the al - shahid mosqu in the bureij refuge camp , in the heart of a civilian neighborhood and next to a public librari fund by germani & rsquo ; s kfw bank . the mosqu serv as a commun center , provid first aid cours and activ for local children . anoth mosqu identifi by the idf as an ammunit depot wa the abdullah azzam mosqu in the nuseirat refuge camp . accord to the armi , the mosqu is an import part of the camp , is surround by residenti home and is just 86 m . from the offic of unrwa & rsquo ; s north nuseirat relief and social servic . & ldquo ; an explos , an accid or even a fire in the warehous could result in injuri to civilian , from worship in the mosqu to peopl who come to receiv humanitarian aid , & rdquo ; the idf said . follow a wednesday tour of the gaza divis , defens minist benni gantz said , & ldquo ; hama fire from within the civilian popul and into the civilian popul & ndash ; the world should charg hama a price for it crime . & rdquo ; gantz : world must be awar of hama ' crimesfollow a wednesday tour of the gaza divis , defens minist benni gantz said , `` hama fire from within the civilian popul and into the civilian popul - the world should charg hama a price for it crime . & rdquo ; gantz wa accompani by deputi defens minist alon shuster , gener of the southern command maj .- gen . eliez toledano , head of the oper director maj .- gen . ode basiuk and head of the gaza divis brig .- gen . nimrod aloni . gantz said the defens ministri ha been & ldquo ; work extens & rdquo ; to creat a sens of secur for resid of the south , as well as work toward allow the resid of gaza to have a better economi while continu to disrupt hama & rsquo ; s attempt to strengthen itself militarili . & ldquo ; today , the idf reveal to the world exampl of the depth of hama & rsquo ; s use of the civilian popul , which it choos to put in the front line of fire , & rdquo ; gantz said . & ldquo ; the whole world should be expos to the crime commit by hama , and exact a heavi price for that . & rdquo ;