six month after oper guardian of the wall , the defens establish is prepar as it expect hama to tri and damag the border fenc between the gaza strip and the southern border by blow up car bomb , infiltr isra territori and hit soldier . in an exercis held thi week in the gaza divis , the forc practic such scenario , includ an infiltr into isra territori . the aboveground barrier , made of steel , is about 65 km long and six meter high . it will extend from zikim beach to the kerem shalom cross and it purpos is to prevent terrorist from enter isra territori from aboveground . the defens establish believ that hama leader understood , as part of the conclus drawn from oper guardian of the wall , that alongsid the attack tunnel , which it peopl continu to invest in , the organ must develop addit option for oper that it ha use effect in the past , but abandon in recent year . the secur tension and stalem in talk with hama over an agreement for calm and a prison swap agreement , mediat by egypt , could push the organ to take action against israel . accord to evalu , as part of oper order for when the order is given , hama member are train for raid and infiltr into isra territori as well as the use of larg explos vehicl . as mention , the defens establish is awar of the fact that hama is invest a lot of effort in dig new defens and attack tunnel and in rehabilit the tunnel damag in the oper . it is estim that the rout of the attack tunnel is approach the barrier area , although no tunnel out into isra territori is known . israel ha notic that in recent month hama ha been make a major effort to rehabilit and improv it militari capabl , as a lesson from the oper in which it men found it difficult to hit idf soldier and target along the border . among the area in which hama is invest are : cyber warfar , unman aerial vehicl ( uav ) , variou airspac method and anti - tank weapon . the idf believ that the terrorist organ is not current interest in a militari confront due to the need to rehabilit the gaza strip and it militari capabl . the defens establish ha identifi a larg presenc of hama restrain forc in order to prevent clash with the idf . recent , hama forc even aggress arrest palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) terrorist oper , in order to maintain stabil in the region at thi stage . in israel , it is believ that incid that may occur in secur prison , such as the death of a hunger strike pij prison , could lead to a terrorist attack and it is estim that the pij is alreadi prepar to carri out attack . on the other hand , in recent month , hama leader have repeatedli sent messag to the leadership of the pij that if the organ act contrari to the posit of the joint faction , it peopl will not receiv militari assist from hama , as ha alreadi happen twice in recent year .