the idf launch a surpris attack on the gaza strip earli tuesday morn , assassin three senior terrorist in the palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) movement in a seri of airstrik refer to as oper shield and arrow . the offici assassin in the strike includ khalil bahitini , the command of the al - qud brigad in the northern gaza strip , tareq ezzaldin , a spokesperson for the movement who also manag terrorist activ in the west bank and gaza , and jihad ghanem , secretari of the movement ' s militari council . who is khalil bahitini ? bahitini serv as the command of the pij ' s al - qud brigad in the northern gaza strip and wa the most senior oper command in the movement , accord to the idf . the command wa respons for & nbsp ; rocket fire toward israel in the past month and wa plan further rocket fire in the near futur , accord to the idf . who is tareq ezzaldin ? ezzaldin , a spokesperson for the pij , wa respons for the commun between the movement and it branch in the west bank , for transfer fund and coordin incit effort in isra territori . ezzaldin wa releas from isra prison in the gilad shalit prison swap . who is jihad ghanem ? ghanem , secretari of the movement ' s militari council , wa one of the most senior and veteran oper in the movement and serv at one point as the command of the al - qud brigad in the southern gaza strip . in hi latest posit , ghanem wa respons for coordin the transfer of fund and weapon from the pij to hama . the wive and some of the children of the three senior terrorist were kill in the strike as well . islam jihad : the resist will continueth pij confirm that the three senior offici were kill , along with their wive and some of their children , in the strike , stress `` we affirm that the blood of the martyr will increas our resolv , and we will not leav our posit , and the resist will continu . '' islam jihad spokesman tariq selmi warn that the palestinian faction would `` start from where the previou battl end , '' warn that `` all scenario and option are open to the resist to respond to the crime of the occup . '' selmi ad that `` the resist will aveng the martyr leader . '' ismail haniyeh , head of the hama movement , warn that israel `` made a mistak in it estim and will pay the price for it crime , '' ad that `` the aggress target all of our peopl , and the resist is unifi in confront it . '' hama spokesman hazem qassem accus israel of `` escal it aggress against the gaza strip , '' stress that `` the resist will continu to defend our peopl and their sanctiti . ''