israel ha begun what look like a limit oper in rafah , but seven month after octob 7 , the paramet have not chang . half the hostag have not return , no altern to hama ha been allow to emerg in gaza , israel & rsquo ; s intern stand ha collaps , it relationship with the us is on the rock , the economi ha taken a hit , antisemit is skyrocket , and much of countri is convinc the govern is prolong the crisi to stay in power . it & rsquo ; s clearli not great . now imagin an altern univers in which israel wa led by a moral upstand patriot who care about the countri & rsquo ; s reput and the fate of jew worldwid . imagin that the prime minist understood the power of word to do good and of public diplomaci to persuad . and imagin & ndash ; whi not ? & ndash ; that thi wa benjamin netanyahu . whether or not a limit hostag deal is somehow reach in the come day , such a prime minist could flip the entir narr dramat at ani moment by hold an english - languag news confer aim at the world and contain honest truth and easi - to - understand messag with zero polit scheme . for starter , he & rsquo ; d express deep regret over the loss of life in gaza . & ldquo ; i know it ha been sever , although i am not inclin to believ hama number . we did our best with a situat in which hama use the popul as a human fortif unlik ani that histori ha seen and seem to seek as much & lsquo ; martyrdom & rsquo ; as possibl . hama is evil incarn , and i weep for the palestinian who are saddl with such maniac ruler . & rdquo ; that part of the messag should be beam to everi us colleg campu . he would make clear that israel ha no desir to occupi gaza and no intent of compel the popul to flee . & ldquo ; we are onli there to remov the threat that attack us on octob 7 unprovok , massacr over 1 , 200 peopl , and promis with great arrog to do it again . & ldquo ; i ask everi palestinian : what would you have recommend that we do , at that point ? wait for them , then , to do it again ? i & rsquo ; m genuin curiou . is that what you would have done ? & rdquo ; a departur from cynic and self - righteous & nbsp ; the prime minist would say these last word without the kind of smirk , self - righteou cynic we & rsquo ; ve come to expect . he would sound like a mensch , make each listen feel person address . that & rsquo ; s becaus the prime minist is no fool and know that empathi beget empathi and sometim even sympathi . the prime minist would , at thi point , diverg not onli from the style but from the content that ha character netanyahu hitherto . he would say he is prepar to end the war right now in exchang for all remain hostag . he would look into the camera and speak slowli word that will be replay on everi televis station in the arab world : & ldquo ; dear palestinian , dear peopl of gaza : the war can end right now . thi minut & ndash ; thi veri second . no more death and destruct . life and reconstruct instead . it is the decis of hama . & rdquo ; he would make clear that israel want to engag the world , the region , and the palestinian in a day - after plan . and he would offer the palestinian a choic & ndash ; after the hostag have all been releas . one option would be for israel to pull out of gaza and let the chip fall where they may , which probabl mean hama will remain in power despit it militari degrad . & ldquo ; for us to do thi , there is a major precondit . the group must commit itself to never again attack israel from gaza & ndash ; not with rocket , not with explod balloon , and definit not with an invas by arm barbarian . thi must be declar by the polit bureau in document submit to the arab leagu . we understand it is unlik , but we are give you thi choic . if you take it , then someth good will have come of thi war . i will sell thi to the isra peopl . let & rsquo ; s see you explain yourselv to the peopl of gaza . & rdquo ; if hama is unwil to do thi & ndash ; and it is close to a certainti that it won & rsquo ; t & ndash ; then it would have a second option as well . the prime minist would explain that israel would allow the entir leadership of the organ and anyon who particip in octob 7 & ndash ; thousand of bloodthirsti fanat and fool & ndash ; to leav the strip in a flotilla guard by the unit state navi and head to whatev countri agre to take them . turkey and qatar are deserv candid . israel would undertak not to attack them there in the futur as well . here , the prime minist would final address what israel would like to see happen in the strip the day after hama . he would jettison the self - defeat boycott of the palestinian author , say that the pa would be invit to return to gaza , from which it wa expel by hama in 2007 . he would add that israel would be hope that the pa revis the problemat school curricula in which pupil are not educ for peac and that it would need to accept assist , from israel or from an arab forc , on secur in the territori . he would add that israel would , in exchang for acquiesc in these area , offer extrem signific financi aid to rebuild the strip and set it on the road to a reason degre of prosper . the prime minist would also mention the eleph in the room & ndash ; the world commun & rsquo ; s desir to see a two - state solut in which the west bank issu is also resolv . repeat word netanyahu and other isra leader have said in the past , the prime minist would explain that israel doe not want to forev govern the palestinian becaus it aim to be a democrat , jewish - major countri . but he would add that there & rsquo ; s a catch . & ldquo ; what happen on octob 7 make it imposs for us to remov the militari complet from the west bank becaus if that territori fell into the same hand that attack us from gaza , the damag would be mani time greater . & ldquo ; for thi , you have hama to blame . everi person who support hama support continu a level of threat against us that doe not allow progress . therefor , address the secur danger & ndash ; which is a real danger for us , and not paranoia & ndash ; is the key . we will be work on thi with all our partner , but we need some time . let & rsquo ; s focu first on a real solut for gaza . & rdquo ; he would conclud with a broader messag that will reson around the world : & ldquo ; palestinian and arab friend , and also enemi : we want peac , but we will not roll over . the jewish peopl are in israel to stay . work with us and you will find a support and a champion . the past seven month have offer a glimps of the hell that await us if the radic prevail . let & rsquo ; s instead ensur that thi never occur again . & rdquo ; the prime minist will have not commit to anyth that israel should not itself desir & ndash ; but the deck will have been complet reshuffl . even if hama reject all the option , among seriou peopl in the world there will be clariti at last , and israel would have intern legitimaci to press on . thi is good , becaus there is no great advantag in dwell alon . i know & ndash ; the prime minist who doe thi can not be netanyahu . it realli doe appear that basic noth drive him but a lust for power and the most vulgar of polit calcul . that & rsquo ; s whi israel need a new elect with urgenc . but i would love to be prove wrong . the writer is the former chief editor of the associ press in europ , africa and the middl east , the former chairman of the foreign press associ in jerusalem , and the author of two book about israel . follow hi newslett & ldquo ; ask question later & rdquo ; at danperri . substack . com .