the biden administr ha becom increasingli concern that the increas conflict and rocket exchang between israel and hezbollah could expand through the region , anonym us offici told cb new on friday . an offici said that the administr had been work toward lower the risk that us troop face in syria , iraq , and jordan . & nbsp ; addit , diplomat advisor amo hochstein is head to israel on monday with the report purpos of tri to de - escal tension befor they spread throughout the region . iaf strike deeper into lebanonsom of the us offici told cb that they interpret the deepen idf strike in lebanes territori as a preparatori measur for a sweep assault . thi , the offici worri , could start a war with lebanon that israel would requir us support to win . & nbsp ; other offici told cb they were concern that , in respons to the deepen strike , hezbollah would escal attack , result in an unintend war . the rocket exchang on the northern border are also creat new barrier in push for a hostag - ceasefir deal , the cb report ad . a senior biden administr offici said , `` the most import thing about the hostag releas and ceasefir deal that ' s on the tabl now is that if it ' s achiev , it can have an impact in the north [ of israel ] , so that is an opportun for us to be abl to bring thi conflict to a full close . '' '' there ha to be an agreement that allow isra to return to their home in the north with secur guarante that it is not oct . 6 of hezbollah & hellip ; sit right on the blue line , '' the offici ad . inflam tension & nbsp ; after senior hezbollah offici sami taleb abdullah wa elimin in a strike , hezbollah increas it rocket attack against israel . approxim 250 rocket were launch on wednesday toward northern israel , disrupt civilian tri to partak in the holiday of shavuot . & nbsp ; abdullah is the most senior member of hezbollah to be elimin sinc octob 7 . '' the power elimin worri hezbollah member . they now understand that the idf know much more about them than we do . addit , the oper indic that hezbollah ' s field secur is not airtight and that the organ ' s intellig system ha been penetr to such an extent that we were abl to elimin such an import sector command . the idf manag to infiltr their network and system and identifi the right peopl for elimin , '' said professor amatzia baram , suggest that thi also impact the leader of the terrorist organ .