israel & rsquo ; s expand ground oper is be watch close by region media . on monday , arab news report claim that isra tank were seen on a major road that connect the south of the gaza strip , to the north . the report prompt specul in foreign media about the progress of the ground campaign : if salah a - din road is under isra control ( along with anoth major road along the coast ) , transit across the strip will be cut for hama , essenti split the enclav into two . these report have appear onli in arab media . the success of the idf ground troop come amid continu call abroad for a paus in oper for humanitarian aid , a ceasefir , and the open of the border with egypt as an exit , as well as for good to arriv in gaza , like fuel . al - ain media postul that israel reach into central gaza at it narrowest point , an area of field between gaza citi and al - bureij camp . thi area includ the villag of juhr al - dik and it surround field . the report call thi the & ldquo ; soft flank & rdquo ; of gaza , becaus there is no built - up area , and it can be easili travers to the sea . the al - ain report read : & ldquo ; from the zaytoun neighborhood , through the netzarim junction , to the juhr al - dik area , israel seem to be sens a new phase in it ground oper in the gaza strip , on the 24th day of the war . & rdquo ; cut the strip in twoth report goe on to note that move through thi area , near wadi gaza and also the salah al - din road , present a stratagem that cut the strip in two . & ldquo ; the distanc between the border separ israel and the outskirt of the zaytoun neighborhood up to salah al - din street is about three kilomet , and they are uninhabit agricultur area , and therefor isra movement in that area is easi , & rdquo ; the report read . the report add that israel ha oper in thi area in the past & ndash ; one of the raid last week when israel enter and retreat from the gaza strip . the report say that the area wa & ldquo ; subject to artilleri shell from isra vehicl and armor vehicl station there . & rdquo ; it also say that & ldquo ; eyewit spoke of the arriv of isra tank to an area just a kilomet away from the netzarim junction , locat along the eastern outskirt of the zaytoun neighborhood , also locat on salah al - din ; & rdquo ; palestinian in gaza post a video of a tank fire on a car . the al - ain further report note that the netzerim junction is name for the former isra commun that wa evacu in 2005 under the disengag from the gaza strip . as such , israel is familiar with thi area that & ldquo ; extend to al - bahr street to the west , & rdquo ; accord to the report . it also note that israel would have to cut the rashid coastal road as well . it explain that prior to 2005 , israel use to have the abil to cut these two road in order to isol the area of gaza and prevent terror . pro - iran media express worri about israel cut thi key road . al - mayadeen ran a report claim that israel had not been abl to cut the road , base on palestinian claim of & ldquo ; resist & rdquo ; in thi area . clearli , all eye are not on central gaza , and the key road between the north and south . thi is as israel also press in from the north , along the beach from zikim , and also toward gaza citi near beit hanun and other area .