the israel nation team will get back to action with a pair of soccer friendli against hungari on saturday and belaru on tuesday as brand - new head coach ran ben shimon will get hi first tast of lead the blue - and - white . follow a number of disappoint campaign under the leadership of alon hazan and yossi benayoun , the israel footbal associ decid to make a chang and it brought in a battl - test head coach , both in israel and abroad , who also ha intern soccer experi on hi resum . the 53 - year - old ben shimon grew up as a player in the maccabi petah tikva youth system , where he featur between 1987 - 1995 . but it wa with hapoel haifa where the defend star and captain the carmel red to the 1999 leagu championship . the petah tikva nativ also play for the israel nation team , make 34 appear , befor move into coach where he began to earn hi stripe in the maccabi tel aviv youth depart in 2003 . hi first full time head coach job wa with kiryat shmona , where he help the team earn promot from the leumit leagu and then finish in third place in premier leaug action to earn a place in uefa cup play . after a veri short stint with maccabi tel aviv in 2008 it wa back to kiryat shmona for a trio of season where he won a pair of toto cup . most notabl as well as the shock 2011 - 2012 leagu championship with k8 that becam an intern stori of success for a small team find a way to finish atop the tabl against club with budget much higher than the northern . the next season , ben shimon went abroad to lead aek larnaca in cypru and then return back to israel to head up hapoel tel aviv , maccabi petah tikva and beitar jerusalem befor take over the cypru nation team post where he pli hi trade between 2017 - 2020 . ashdod for three season and then anoth stop back at larnaca wa on tap befor be appoint as the head coach of the israel nation team . ahead of the two upcom match , which for hungari will be a tune - up for the uefa european championship , ben shimon wa unveil as the new bench boss and spoke about hi vision for the & nbsp ; blue - and - white as he begin to mold the squad to hi like . ' israel nation team is a mission ' & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the israel nation team is not just anoth stop for me & ndash ; it & rsquo ; s a mission , and i will go into everi work day treat it as the most import day . & ldquo ; be a nation team player is how one conduct himself off and on the field , both when we are togeth as a team and when we are not . everi time we are togeth is of great import to me . everi game will be treat the same , no more or no less import . & nbsp ; thi is an opportun for everyon who is around the team to ask what they can do differ . we are in a complex period of time and i will tri my utmost to connect thi team to the peopl of israel . & rdquo ; ben shimon spoke about barak bachar , who had been a lead candid for the posit but decid to head back to maccabi haifa after a short and disappoint run with red star belgrad . & ldquo ; coach who were deserv of thi posit were in competit for it and i don & rsquo ; t feel second to anyon , no matter what is written and what peopl may say . i wa also a candid in other campaign , i feel veri secur in my place . & ldquo ; everi place that i & rsquo ; ve been in my life there wa also a clash between my head and my heart and i went with my gut feel . thi is the right place for me to be . i believ in my abil to do differ thing than what wa done in the past . i believ in thi gener of player and i have arriv at the right stage in my life to coach the israel nation team , which is a big challeng . i will have to bring all the experi and what i have gain in life into the challeng that i am enter into today with great faith . & rdquo ; ben shimon will lead the team in the upcom nation leagu campaign , where the oppon will be european heavyweight franc , itali and belgium . & ldquo ; i am not go to deni that the main goal is euro 2028 , but we will have a competit team in everi game . each game will give us a littl more as to what we can do and accomplish . & ldquo ; i & rsquo ; m not go to pass up these two year . i & rsquo ; m go to work veri hard to produc a dna of winner and i need to creat a team that will connect with the peopl in thi campaign . we will not give up ani game . that & rsquo ; s the beauti of sport & ndash ; you don & rsquo ; t know what the outcom will be at the end . we will come into these game with complet faith that we can win . & rdquo ; ben shimon ad that he is still work to put togeth hi group of assist . & ldquo ; i believ that in the next week or so the balanc of the staff will be appoint and if we onli reli on the time we get togeth for game our philosophi won & rsquo ; t work . we have to work on a daili basi , work hard and convinc the player that thi is what it take to advanc to a big tournament . & ldquo ; in order to achiev differ result , we must chang . my predecessor did good thing and we need to learn from that . i am a big believ in see what team similar to our have done and those that have broken glass ceil . i am come into thi with complet faith in both the local product and the isra player . & rdquo ; the new coach also spoke about what type of player that he will want to includ in hi squad as well as how he will work with them to get the best out of the squad . & ldquo ; i will have to shape the natur of my work in front of the player . i prefer player with european experi , but the team is open to everyon . & rdquo ; last campaign saw the ugli saga of eran zahavi & rsquo ; s hotel room assign , which caus a stir at the time . & ldquo ; everyon come in with their own agenda , & rdquo ; ben shimon said . & ldquo ; we & rsquo ; ll sit down and decid how we want thing to look . i don & rsquo ; t think it & rsquo ; s too complic , we need to creat an environ for the player to succeed . i have a person connect with each player . i have a wonder relationship with eran and i also spoke with [ miguel ] vitor . i believ that everyth will be & nbsp ; consid individu , but there is no doubt that the team is go through a process . & rdquo ; ben shimon also comment on the path he took to becom the head coach . & ldquo ; when i wa a player , i didn & rsquo ; t think i would becom a coach . all the station i went through come back to me . while i am an emot person , i am less concern with the past and i am not veri nostalg . all thi is nice , but from here on it is a matter of see what we can do to succeed . & rdquo ;