rock were thrown at israel polic and border polic offic on the templ mount tuesday night , the israel polic spokesperson announc . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; author have tri to dispers the protest , arrest one . & nbsp ; polic reportedli arrest eleven suspect for disorderli conduct and assault polic offic on tuesday afternoon dure a protest against the recent escal on ben - gurion boulevard , near the univers junction in beersheba . & nbsp ; one of the protest who wa arrest reportedli stab an 18 - year - old dure clash that broke out between jew and bedouin . the injur teen wa evacu to soroka medic center in the citi in moder - to - seriou condit . & nbsp ; one of the policemen who wa present at the scene and notic the incid fire into the air . polic said the suspect fled and attempt to take shelter in the nearbi medic center , but wa thwart with the help of the hospit @ @ @ s secur guard and subsequ arrest . & nbsp ; anoth man in hi 40 wa lightli injur from tear ga at the protest and wa also evacu to soroka . a jewish student at ben - gurion univers of the negev and activist in the kumi israel protest movement said she wa rescu by border polic offic from be & quot ; lynch & quot ; by right - wing protest after arriv at the scene to document the protest , the movement said in a statement . & nbsp ; in her video , dozen of right - wing protest can be seen gather around the activist , call her a & quot ; whore for arab & quot ; and threaten to harm her as border polic forc who were at the scene protect her and escort her from the scene back to her car . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; the activist said & quot ; i felt a real danger to my life . if i had not been surround by five border policemen , i would not have left that protest aliv ; there wa a guy who had alreadi begun swing hi hand in my direct . & quot ; & nbsp ; further video releas by the activist reveal that a man had inde tri to swing hi fist at her befor polic move him away and began escort her to her car . & nbsp ; a wit at the scene told kumi israel that & quot ; hundr of demonstr gather around her and block her on both side of the road , curs , shout and threaten her , until a border polic offic rescu her . & quot ; isra polic report that a 42 - year - old man wa stab at the templ mount compound on tuesday even and that the red crescent ha evacu him to a hospit , where hi death wa determin shortli thereaft . & nbsp ; polic ad that offic who arriv at the scene have like locat the weapon use in the assault and that & quot ; action are be taken to locat those involv in the incid . & quot ; polic have determin that the background for the stab incid wa like relat to crimin matter , and wa not relat to the protest at the templ mount compound . & nbsp ; meanwhil , one palestinian wa kill and anoth wound while allegedli attempt a ram attack at tapuah junction in judea and samaria on tuesday even , zaka report . it wa later discov that the palestinian men did not have weapon and we appar not intend to harm soldier . & nbsp ; idf soldier from the givati brigad reportedli shot toward the suspect , neutral them in the process . no further injuri have been report . earlier on tuesday , an attempt terror attack wa thwart in the samaria region of the west bank by a fire - and - rescu volunt . accord to a statement , the volunt firefight spot a palestinian woman act & quot ; suspici & quot ; near huwara . when he approach her , the woman pull out a knife and began run toward a bu station . he manag to subdu the woman , tackl her to the ground and call in the author . the incid come amid a massiv upsurg of violent incid in the west bank , includ fire from burn tire and molotov cocktail . & nbsp ; isra arab protest in haifa also engag in disturb , throw rock and assault polic offic . some 26 suspect were arrest for caus damag to properti , throw bottl and shoot firework . in addit , a restaur in acr and a car in the area were also burnt in protest . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; eight resid of jisr az - zarqa were also arrest earli wednesday on suspicion of throw stone and burn tire , while in wadi ara , rioter threw stone , molotov cocktail and firework at polic , accord to kan news . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; jerusalem post staff contribut to thi report . & nbsp ;