israel should not re - occupi the gaza strip , and should make sure palestinian still rule the area , command for israel & rsquo ; s secur ( ci ) and other former top defens offici said in it recommend for how israel should handl gaza post - toppl hama . in contrast , sever offici familiar with govern deliber on the issu are far more circumspect about share their view , and about whether a seriou strategi can be frame , befor the outcom of the ground invas ( which continu to be delay ) becom clearer . accord to the senior former secur offici , & ldquo ; the war must end decis for israel , in a manner which will restor israel & rsquo ; s stand and enhanc deterr . toward thi end , diplomat , econom and other tool of statecraft should be pursu alongsid the militari campaign . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; israel ha no intent of occupi the gaza strip and will not reassum respons for it . the gaza strip must be rule by a palestinian govern with the assist of intern entiti and a direct connect to the palestinian govern in the west bank , & rdquo ; said ci . further , ci said , & ldquo ; israel should relinquish control of the territori captur dure the oper as quickli as possibl and should not repeat the scenario of becom mire in the lebanes quagmir . thi imper doe not includ territori captur for the purpos of widen the buffer zone . & rdquo ; question about thi new palestinian regim in gazaci & rsquo ; s strategi paper is one of the most detail to date on the issu by top offici , though it still leav mani open question : what form will a new palestinian regim in gaza take ? how much will the palestinian author domin thi regim versu local repres from gaza ? given hama & rsquo ; s success at elimin organ intern opposit , how will gaza have local repres if none of the class of hama , ruler for the last 15 year , will be allow in the new regim ? & nbsp ; also : whi will thi new palestinian govern , with whatev unidentifi intern assist , succeed in keep hama down where the pa , unfil , and other intern peacekeep group have fail in the past to keep down determin local violent group ? final , ci said to avoid the isra model of the earli 1980 of interf with who ran lebanon , but suggest an unidentifi larger secur zone . thi larger secur zone idea is anoth larg piec of what kept israel mire deep in the & ldquo ; lebanes quagmir & rdquo ; for almost anoth 20 year . a top former intellig offici separ from thi group gave a wider number of potenti choic of what could happen to gaza post hama . & ldquo ; we need to take apart hama , and ani futur ruler of gaza can not bring back the militari power . all of oslo wa base on the paradigm of demilitar . we drop thi requir for hama . we need to hand off gaza to egypt , or the palestinian author , jordan , or the uae , & rdquo ; said the former top intellig offici . howev , he ad , & ldquo ; mayb no one will want to take it . & rdquo ; despit thi dilemma , he state , & ldquo ; that even in the worst case , it would take year for some other bad actor to achiev the militar level of hama . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; hama had 15 year for it militari buildup . and it is not just that we did not disrupt their militar . [ prime minist benjamin ] netanyahu even help hama with fund and materi . the materi were for build , but they were use for make rocket and tunnel . it doe not matter who rule gaza , we can not let them rebuild their militari power . & rdquo ; thi offici wa possibl be the most blatantli honest of all , recogn that there may be no perfect solut that can prevent hama from at some point regain control of gaza . howev , he recogn that even if hama return in the worst case scenario , thi & nbsp ; would take time , and he wa point out that that time itself and extra time afterward to rebuild militari power , would give a much longer break from larg round of fight with gaza . former nation secur council chief from 2017 - 2021 meir ben shabbat said use overwhelm forc against hama to defeat it quickli and comprehens is the onli thing israel should be think about at thi stage . & ldquo ; israel is exempt from worri what will happen in gaza after the war . it must overthrow hama and destroy it militari capabl , and let the chip fall where they may , & rdquo ; said ben shabbat , who now also head misgav : the institut for nation secur and zionist strategi . ben shabbat appear to be concern that the invas itself continu to be delay and to look more surgic and less aggress than netanyahu and other offici & rsquo ; public statement would suggest . regard the multipl offici familiar with govern debat on the issu , one note that israel may not have a domin role in decid who to hand gaza to , even if it militarili defeat the gaza group . in other word , onc israel refus to hold on to gaza itself , and ask for intern help , jerusalem may be stuck with arrang sponsor by the un , the us , or some other mix of power . other impli that the invas itself wa so larg , and the guerilla war afterward so unclear and vagu , that it wa nearli imposs to plan post - war issu until the shape of the war itself eventu becom clearer . & nbsp ;