on tuesday , the jordan river cross ( kasser al - yahud ) host an event commemor the histor cross of the jordan river by the israelit approxim 3 , 300 year ago . led by the jordan valley truste associ , the ceremoni not onli honor a signific moment in israel & rsquo ; s histori but also underscor the associ & rsquo ; s call to recogn the jordan river cross as a nation heritag site and reaffirm isra sovereignti in the jordan valley . brig .- gen . ( ret . ) uzi dayan , chairman of the jordan valley truste associ , emphas the import of preserv histor site such as the jordan river cross and highlight their profound signific in connect the jewish peopl to the land of israel . & ldquo ; the site symbol the deep and histor connect of the jewish peopl to the land of israel , & rdquo ; dayan state , advoc for an annual state ceremoni to commemor the israelit & rsquo ; cross . the event drew particip from hundr of individu across the countri who engag in variou activ , includ a music prayer servic , guid tour in the jericho area , and a symposium discuss the histor and cultur signific of the jordan river cross . collabor with region council in the jordan valley and receiv support from organ such as magen david adom , the aliyah and integr ministri , the world zionist organ , and the jordan valley truste associ highlight the potenti for develop tourism in the region . dayan note that the site attract over 850 , 000 tourist annual and propos the construct of hotel and visitor center to accommod the grow interest , which could provid employ opportun for resid and further establish israel & rsquo ; s presenc in the jordan valley . the jordan river cross is a cornerston moment for the isra peopleaccord to biblic account and histor research , the cross of the jordan river by the hebrew or israelit is a pivot moment in their journey to claim the promis land . as recount in the book of joshua , after wander in the wilder for forti year , the israelit , led by joshua , stood on the eastern bank of the jordan river , pois to enter the land of canaan . mirror the miracul cross of the red sea led by mose , joshua order the priest carri the ark of the coven to step into the water of the jordan . as they did , the river miracul part , allow the israelit to cross on dri ground , just as the slave gener had done 40 year earlier . thi event symbol the fulfil of god & rsquo ; s promis to deliv the land to the israelit and mark the begin of their conquest and settlement of canaan . histor research corrobor element of thi biblic account , suggest that the cross of the jordan river like occur at a shallow ford near the modern - day site of kasser al - yahud . archaeolog evid and geograph studi support the plausibl of such an event , with scholar propos that the time of the cross coincid with the spring thaw when the river & rsquo ; s water would have been at their lowest .