it seem like we were watch the news on repeat : jewish nationalist & nbsp ; march through jerusalem & nbsp ; wave isra flag as hama in the gaza strip warn it would fire rocket . everyon wa on the edg of their seat . less than a month sinc a ceasefir wa sign , wa israel set to go back to war ? & nbsp ; throughout the day & nbsp ; incendiari and explos balloon & nbsp ; land in southern israel , ignit more than 20 fire , but no rocket were fire . & nbsp ; israel had deploy iron dome batteri close to the capit , reinforc batteri in the south and had thousand of border polic offic secur the march . there were sever injuri and arrest dure the controversi march , but overal the day end with quiet in the capit . & nbsp ; the iron dome batteri that had been deploy close to the capit stay silent . instead of rocket - warn siren , the siren of fire truck rush to the scene were heard . & nbsp ; the way that the two side handl the day show just how much restraint they employ , becaus neither hama nor israel want to go back to war so soon after the last round in may . & nbsp ; hama , which push itself into a corner with it threat and promis to the palestinian peopl that it is the protector of al - qud and al - aqsa mosqu , resort to it pressur tactic of balloon and night demonstr along the border , instead of rocket fire . & nbsp ; but the balloon and demonstr were not launch sole becaus of the flag march ; the group is also tri to pressur israel into let the million of dollar of qatari cash into gaza , as well as restart the fuel transfer into the blockad coastal enclav . & nbsp ; hama know it can not afford anoth war right now , especi with egyptian in the strip handl all aid sent . egypt is an instrument player when israel and gaza go to war , and hama know that anger it neighbor to the south would not be the smartest move on it part . & nbsp ; a key strateg alli for israel , cairo had reconnaiss plane in the air over northern sinai and off the gazan coast throughout the day , like to watch for ani move insid gaza that would point to prepar of rocket fire . & nbsp ; if it want to , hama can keep the quiet ; we have seen that over and over again . and not onli did it prevent ani fire from it oper on tuesday , but it made sure that palestinian islam jihad and other group to the line as well . & nbsp ; but the terrorist group still claim victori , say that it impos a new set of rule on israel follow the 11 day of conflict . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the courag stanc of the palestinian resist , and it decis decis that forc the isra occup to chang the path of the so - call march of flag away from the bless al - aqsa mosqu , chang the path of civil aviat , and intensifi the deploy of the iron dome , confirm the achiev of the deterr equat it impos in the battl of saif al - qud , and it success in impos new rule of engag on the enemi , & rdquo ; the group said tuesday night . & nbsp ; the day wa a test for israel under the new govern of prime minist naftali bennett , as well . & nbsp ; bennett is a known hawk on defens issu . shortli after he began hi term as defens minist in novemb 2018 , he warn hama that & ldquo ; no one will be immun & rdquo ; from isra militari action . the respons to the launch of explos balloon from the strip would be similar to the launch of rocket , he said . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the lawless conduct of hama leadership is bring us closer to fatal action against them . we will not announc when or where , but no one will be immun , & rdquo ; bennett said at the time . & nbsp ; and he ha kept repeat that . & nbsp ; so overnight , idf jet carri out strike against empti hama and pij compound . they were the first airstrik sinc the ceasefir and a warn to hama : we will not sit back quietli . but doe hit empti compound at night do anyth to deter the group ? isra offici have said over and over again that & ldquo ; what wa , will not be , & rdquo ; so in order to stay true to their word , the israel air forc could have hit a target with more signific . & nbsp ; opposit mk israel katz ( likud ) tweet wednesday morn that & ldquo ; for everi attack in israel , target assassin and widespread attack on hama target should be carri out . not empti compound . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; perhap the isra were also walk a tightrop , know that widespread attack in the strip would not be welcom by cairo and could instead lead to a diplomat crisi that bennett could not afford so soon into hi term . & nbsp ; both israel and gaza have firepow to caus extens damag , but no matter the threat by leader in jerusalem or gaza , both side are restrain both by cairo and by their own intern issu .