the non - profit momentum brought 130 jewish mother to visit israel in a trip design to help them understand the graviti of hama & rsquo ; s octob 7 attack , help them connect to their jewish valu and to the state , the organ announc on tuesday . momentum which work with the ministri of diaspora affair and combat antisemit , ha collect transport more than 200 particip in three differ solidar trip , befor thi one , sinc octob 7 . the current cohort of women hail from north , central and south america from countri includ : the unit state , canada , columbia , chile , panama , argentina , mexico , uruguay and israel . what did the mother do on the trip ? while the trip still maintain the goal of connect particip to judaism and israel , in the wake of octob 7 , momentum ha place a greater emphasi on volunteer and hear first - hand account from soldier , evacue and octob 7 massacr survivor . particip met with the famili of the hostag in tel aviv & rsquo ; s kikar hachatufim ( hostag squar ) and volunt at a farm . the group also made chocol for evacu famili . addit , the women prepar meal for idf soldier , and visit sderot and kibbutzim on israel & rsquo ; s southern border , where they wit what remain of the octob 7 massacr . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the mother on thi trip saw israel & rsquo ; s stori from their own eye and heard them from their own ear and now it ' s the time to act , & rdquo ; said momentum found director lori palatnik . & ldquo ; we hope everi particip take the call of & lsquo ; hineni & rsquo ; - to show up - and they each go back to their home to show up for their isra sister who have suffer so much . it is our hope that they come out of thi experi forev chang . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; '' the purpos of the mission is to provid opportun for women in the diaspora to meaning contribut to isra societi while they & rsquo ; re here and identifi with their struggl . after hear from famili of hostag , soldier , farmer and isra mother we hope our particip will emerg from thi experi with a new sens of understand about what isra are go through right now . and , collect , when the diaspora and israel come togeth , we can demonstr the power of uniti , & rdquo ; palatnik ad . trip particip erica markovitz , from detroit , said , & ldquo ; i had two friend at the nova festiv . one of them is still a hostag . i & rsquo ; m here in israel to bear wit and send a messag home and to keep their stori aliv . & rdquo ;