one recip for a success militari oper is to clearli defin goal beforehand , accomplish them , and then end the oper befor expand those goal and risk get bog down . as of tuesday even , oper home and garden & ndash ; base on these criteria & ndash ; can be consid success . the state goal wa to target the terrorist infrastructur in jenin and degrad the terrorist & rsquo ; capabl . the idf success knock out terrorist command center , uncov weapon lab and arm stockpil , kill nearli a dozen terrorist , and apprehend 10 time that number . it also signal that it wa readi to end the oper swiftli . the success of the campaignth campaign seem success at an oper and tactic level : well plan and effect execut , with no idf fatal as of tuesday even and minim harm to non - combat . prevent need to be the next goalbut what come next ? what happen the day after the troop leav jenin ? thi question can be divid into two part : oper and strateg . oper , onc the idf leav jenin , it must prevent the terrorist from rebuild the infrastructur there and pose a threat to the countri . it must prevent them from build workshop for produc roadsid bomb and lab for manufactur primit rocket . & nbsp ; the idf also need to prevent the jenin refuge camp from again becom a sanctuari for terrorist carri out attack on the road in judea and samaria . the rel small number of terrorist kill or apprehend in thi oper & ndash ; the idf ha identifi an addit 350 arm terrorist gunmen in the citi beyond the 120 arrest & ndash ; indic that they evad the idf soldier . they hid but did not vanish , and onc the idf leav they are like to be even more motiv to carri out attack . to prevent the terrorist from launch attack or rebuild the terrorist infrastructur , the idf will need to go back into jenin again and again . thi can not be a one - time oper becaus it effect would rapidli diminish . in a perfect world , or at least in a world run accord to agreement reach under the oslo accord , the palestinian author secur apparatu would be do thi job . but becaus the pa secur apparatu is not fulfil it respons , & nbsp ; the idf ha to oper in it place . thi mean the idf will need to go into jenin more frequent to keep the terrorist from have freedom of movement and action . after the idf withdraw from jenin , the secur forc must brace for retaliatori attack of the kind carri out by a lone terrorist in tel aviv on tuesday afternoon . addit , they must be prepar for jewish reveng attack in respons to these terror attack . such action , like the rampag by jewish extremist in palestinian town follow the murder outsid of eli two week ago and in huwara earlier thi year , are not onli moral reprehens and wrong but also sap intern legitimaci for the type of militari action taken by israel in jenin , and which may becom more frequent . as israel take action to prevent the buildup of terrorist network in the west bank , encourag and support by iran , hama , and hezbollah , it must also be readi to strike at target in gaza and lebanon if terrorist organ there launch rocket toward israel in a show of solidar with jenin . that the recent fight did not spread to other front thi time doe not guarante the same outcom if similar action are taken in the futur . israel need to defin strateg goalsal that is on the tactic and oper level . on a strateg level , israel need to defin it goal . while the idf spokesman clarifi oper home and garden & rsquo ; s goal over the last few day , emphas that the aim wa to target the terrorist infrastructur without occupi and remain in jenin , a similar diplomat goal wa not articul . the idf want to degrad the terrorist organ & rsquo ; s capabl in jenin , but what happen afterward ? what is israel & rsquo ; s vision for jenin ? doe it want the palestinian author to regain control of the citi ? if so , what polit , diplomat , or financi incent is it will to give the palestinian author to motiv it to reassert it control ? in addit , israel must determin how far it is will to go and what action it is prepar to take to weaken hama , which is the palestinian author & rsquo ; s main rival . dure a knesset foreign affair and defens committe meet last month , prime minist benjamin netanyahu said that while israel want to elimin the palestinian aspir for statehood , it & ldquo ; need & rdquo ; the palestinian author and can not & ldquo ; allow it to collaps . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; we are prepar to help it financi . we have an interest in the palestinian author continu to work , & rdquo ; he said . follow the jenin oper , netanyahu must defin what exactli that mean and outlin the step he is will to take to strengthen the pa so it will have incent to regain secur control in area like jenin . when naftali bennett wa prime minist in 2021 , he spoke of & ldquo ; shrink the conflict & rdquo ; with the palestinian . thi meant increas palestinian sovereignti through build a network of roadblock - free road control by the palestinian , expand palestinian hous and infrastructur , implement measur to boost the palestinian economi , and decreas israel & rsquo ; s footprint in palestinian - control area . although thi fell far short of the palestinian aspir for statehood , it wa someth . so far , the netanyahu govern ha not held out ani diplomat horizon for the palestinian , and instead ha approv thousand of new hous unit in the settlement and green - light an expedit plan process for more . thi reflect intern divis within the govern . while netanyahu speak of not want to bring about the collaps of the palestinian author or annex the west bank , other voic & ndash ; such as those of bezalel smotrich & ndash ; advoc the opposit . follow the event in jenin , netanyahu need to decid what the govern want . if the aim is to collabor with the palestinian author , action should be taken to strengthen it and weaken it enemi . but if the goal is to undermin the palestinian author , israel should begin prepar to fill the void creat when the pa collaps . thi week & rsquo ; s action in jenin offer a glimps of what may await throughout judea and samaria if thi is the chosen cours . & nbsp ;