hezbollah is current engag in a war of attrit on the isra border , but it is not unlik that they will receiv order from tehran to redirect forc to anoth area they recent fought in & ndash ; northern syria . in the past week , a wave of protest began in everi district of the rebel - held idlib provinc in northwestern syria . thi is the last stronghold of the syrian opposit and the last remnant of the civil war in syria from a decad ago , a war that end in other area of the countri in 2018 . syria ' s idlib district is not readi to surrenderat the height of the civil war in syria in 2015 , opposit forc , led by jabhat al - nusra , a jihadist faction of al - qaeda in syria , unit . the coalit of islamist organ push the syrian armi out of the idlib district and ha held most of it to thi day . thi is a district that the syrian regim can not afford to ignor due to it strateg locat . idlib is veri close to latakia & ndash ; the stronghold of syria ' s rule alawit commun , as well as to russian militari base in syria & ndash ; the russian - oper air forc base in hmeimim and the naval port in tartu . despit the relentless syrian air forc bomb on the idlib district ( includ even to the present day ) , the opposit maintain control of the area with impress tenac . it seem that in recent year , even assad ' s support have given up hope of seiz control of idlib . shi ' ite militia have deplet their forc in syria , and most of hezbollah ' s men have return to lebanon . the russian ' attent is elsewher too , as they are deepli involv in the war in ukrain . bashar assad ' s armi is not capabl of effect fight , due to the signific wear and tear it ha endur . the economi of syria is shatter , unemploy is rampant , and the currenc continu to lose it valu . there is no money to sustain the armi or rebuild it significantli . howev , thi doe not stop assad ' s armi from continu to bomb the civilian of idlib indiscrimin . the regim ' s messag is clear : life in the `` liber `` territori will remain a hell until they return to assad ' s rule . the ruler of idlib are tri to gain local legitimaci . they chang the name of their organ from jabhat al - nusra to `` hay ' at tahrir al - sham `` ( organ for the liber of the levant or ht ) and seemingli distanc themselv from al - qaeda , but they remain a jihadist fundamentalist group . the area under the organ ' s control essenti are islam emir with strict religi law . the region doe receiv support from turkey , mainli felt in civilian area , especi regard food . howev , turkish aid is limit as turkey itself is experienc a complex econom crisi . overal , the idlib provinc suffer from sever poverti and unemploy . israel is also involv without even know itboth side , the syrian regim and the opposit in idlib , accus each other of receiv isra support . the opposit constantli compar assad ' s bomb on school and hospit to the current situat in gaza : to them , assad and prime minist benjamin netanyahu are two similar enemi . the onli place in syria where demonstr in support of gaza have taken place sinc octob 7 wa in idlib provinc . by contrast , the syrian regim accus the opposit of seek help from israel , as the isra air forc often bomb assad ' s support in syria & ndash ; mainli shi ' ite terrorist group such as hezbollah . it seem that in the middl east , the enemi of your enemi can still be your enemi . opportun for the syrian regimelast week , protest began in variou area of idlib provinc against the rule of ht and specif against the leader of the organ , abu mohammad al - julani . al jazeera recent cover the develop in the provinc with concern . accord to al jazeera , which is known for it support of islam organ , the protest aros due to two issu : polit and econom & ndash ; the authoritarian rule of the provinci leader , accus of corrupt , and the sever econom crisi . julani ' s organ recent carri out a wave of arrest of around a thousand activist from variou opposit organ in the provinc , includ activist who had previous belong to hi organ . the releas detaine report sever tortur of prison who were arrest on suspicion of collabor with the assad regim . analyst attribut the deterior situat to the lack of a polit solut and a signific reduct in intern aid to the provinc in recent month . thi crisi wa creat due to the uncompromis and unyield stanc of the zealou jihadist ruler julani , who is not will to make ani polit concess . the current wave of protest openli call for the overthrow of julani ' s oppress rule , which some compar to the repress of the assad regim . the protest claim that the current situat is even wors than dure assad ' s rule becaus it also includ religi repress in the style of isi . the protest demand the establish of a local council to run the provinc . ht is now tri to calm the protest by releas more prison , monitor price increas , and eas some tax . howev , it seem that the protest have spiral out of control and are onli gain momentum . interpret from the lebanes al - mayadeen outlet reveal that behind the protest stand turkey , which aim to undermin the control of idlib from the hand of julani and return it to the free syrian armi under ankara ' s direct control . the recent develop undoubtedli weaken julani , who still control about 75 % of idlib . thi mark the breakdown of the coalit after mani year of uniti . an opportun for assad , a problem for hezbollahth divis , anarchi , and turmoil in the idlib region undoubtedli present a golden opportun for control in damascu , which may not return . now assad ' s armi could potenti enter the region with signific support to restor it to the embrac of the regim , after almost a decad of neglect . howev , thi would requir substanti support forc . for the occup of idlib , a signific asset for the assad regim in particular , and the `` resist axi `` in gener , iran would need to send substanti forc . these forc mainli includ shi ' ite popular mobil unit militia from iraq and hezbollah forc from lebanon . howev , hezbollah can not afford a two - front war . now , iran ' s axi of resist , the syrian regim , and shi ' ite militia face a crossroad : whether to continu the war in the isra arena or redirect forc to northern syria ? in the case of the israel front , it is a purposeless war with hezbollah alreadi suffer over 230 casualti and no achiev against the highli motiv and prepar idf . in the case of idlib , howev , it present an opportun for a signific strateg victori against the disintegr opposit . will the syrian arena affect our northern border ? will hezbollah agre to a compromis on our border in order to turn it attent to syria ? onli time will tell . dr . yaron friedman is a research , lectur , and arab teacher in the depart of middl eastern and islam studi at the univers of haifa . yaron manag the newslett thi week in the middl east .