defens minist yoav gallant vote against hi parti , coalit , and the reviv of an old haredi draft bill late monday night , which wa approv by the major of the knesset despit hi rebellion . gallant wa applaud but immedi left the knesset chamber after hi vote , which led to a final talli of 63 - 57 to implement the rule of continu procedur for the januari 2022 secur servic law amend to integr yeshiva student . otzma yehudit mk almog cohen , who had retreat from threat that he would not vote with the coalit , shook gallant & rsquo ; s hand and gave him a look of sympathi as the minist depart . cohen & rsquo ; s vote in favor of the continu of the bill came as opposit mk and leader had urg coalit member to follow gallant & rsquo ; s lead . in accord with the procedur , which allow for the advanc of a bill that had been previous been approv in plenum read , but abandon by the knesset & rsquo ; s dissolut , the legisl remnant from the previou isra govern will be transfer to the foreign affair and secur committe for prepar for further plenum read . opposit leader yair lapid slam the vote that had drag on into the late hour of the night as a one of the most & ldquo ; despic & rdquo ; moment of the knesset & ndash ; it had allegedli fail to stand by it valu , in favor of polit . & ldquo ; the biggest sin is thi govern that dare to speak on behalf of [ idf ] fighter , & rdquo ; said lapid . & ldquo ; today the idf announc that it need 15 battalion . where are we go to get them if thi govern encourag order refus and draft dodg ? at least don & rsquo ; t talk about your commit to the fighter and then come here and pass law on order refus and draft dodg . today the knesset stand befor more than 500 soldier who were kill , in front all the peopl who did 180 day of reserv duti & ndash ; and the coalit will say we don & rsquo ; t care about you , you don & rsquo ; t interest us . & rdquo ; ultra - orthodox draft evasionyisrael beytenu leader avigdor liberman attack the refus by ultra - orthodox leadership to embrac militari servic . & ldquo ; i have never understood whi a jew is not allow to be a combat soldier . where doe thi appear in the sourc ? i have found no trace of militari servic be contrari to judaism . all the great jewish leader were all warrior , & rdquo ; said liberman . & ldquo ; you do not care at all about the torah , there is noth jewish about thi . all thi to me is how thi draft dodg is anti - jewish and anti - zionist . we lost a full brigad & ndash ; kill , injur . the secur situat requir an increas in the manpow of the idf . evas of everyth , militari or civilian servic & ndash ; thi is the most anti - jewish thing . & rdquo ; secur committe chairman mk yuli edelstein said that as israel face complex challeng , it wa part of the polit leadership & rsquo ; s job to provid an accur respons to the secur need of the nation . thi is a histor turn point for the peopl of israel . it is necessari and we have no other choic . we all need a big , effici and strong idf and a big , effici and strong idf need us all , & rdquo ; said edelstein . & ldquo ; we will do thi in a clean , matter - of - fact manner and with the full cooper of all actor . & rdquo ; the secur servic law amend to integr yeshiva student would rais the age of exempt to 22 after two year , and again to 23 a year later . ultra - orthodox youth would be offer altern enlist rout with the nation emerg and rescu servic , or a shorten three month or three week servic . thi would circumv combat role , which requir sever more month of train for qualif . the bill also introduc escal consequ for religi school that did not compli with enlist quota and regul , with a 20 % decreas in govern fund that would grow with consecut year of violat . the law went through first read dure lapid & rsquo ; s tenur in a share administr with then - altern prime minist naftali bennett , but opposit member argu that the octob 7 massacr had chang the isra paradigm and the legisl wa obsolet . coalit member also chang their posit on the legisl , with mk like degel hatorah leader mosh gafni argu in the budget committe on sunday that the opposit onli sought to toppl the govern after the withdraw of the nation uniti parti from the wartim emerg govern and the coalit face a march high court interim order over militari exempt for ultra - orthodox men in the wake of the april legisl deadlin and a juli 2023 draft law expir . & nbsp ;