thi week , a number of voic , mani of them link to israel & rsquo ; s former rule likud parti , claim that the mughrabi bridg , which link the templ mount to an area near the western wall and is use by non - muslim to visit the templ mount , is in danger of collaps . former transport minist mk miri regev said & ldquo ; it is forbidden to wait anoth moment with the demolit of the bridg and the construct of an appropri replac . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; the concern about the bridg ostens date from a month ago when an engin & rsquo ; s report said that the wood the bridg wa construct with doe not enabl safe use of the bridg . thi rais question about whi the previou govern of benjamin netanyahu didn & rsquo ; t replac or reinforc the bridg recent , despit be in offic for a decad . how did a bridg suddenli becom unsaf around the same time israel got a new govern ? whi is there now a new potenti crisi at the sensit holi site ? did the crisi emerg precis when the kingdom of jordan and israel are work to repair tie ? jordan is sensit to ani chang to the statu quo and previou attempt to alter the bridg have met with protest and also conspiraci spread about al - aqsa be in danger . these kind of conspiraci have led to conflict in the past , includ the recent gaza war . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; so how did we get here ? in 2011 , a temporari structur , often call the mughrabi bridg after an earli ramp and neighborhood that onc exist underneath the temporari bridg , wa close due to safeti concern . at the time , report said that & ldquo ; offici close the mugrabi bridg on sunday , three day befor the municip deadlin to close the ramp lead from the western wall plaza to the templ mount . the jerusalem citi engin , shlomo eshkol , ha warn over the past year in a seri of letter to the prime minist and the western wall heritag foundat & ndash ; which overse the area & ndash ; that the temporari bridg is unsaf . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; let & rsquo ; s recal what happen at the time , 10 year ago . & ldquo ; the municip origin set novemb 28 , 2011 as the deadlin to destroy the bridg , but ... netanyahu interven to stop the demolit , worri about trigger riot across the arab world . in the most recent letter , sent last week , the municip insist the entranc must be close to the public until a new bridg is built . & rdquo ; netanyahu chose to cancel the demolit of the bridg becaus of concern in egypt and jordan . the jerusalem municip tri to close the structur on decemb 12 . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; oddli the issu then disappear from the headlin . somehow , the unsaf bridg continu to exist with some modif . in 2014 , a new report emerg . a new part of the bridg had been ad . & ldquo ; erect less than two week ago , the bridg had not offici been open when ... netanyahu order it be dismantl after it becam clear that the project wa not approv by the relev author , and amid mount jordanian protest . & rdquo ; onc again , the temporari bridg , erect after the ramp collaps partial in 2004 , had becom perman and ani chang were seen as a & ldquo ; statu quo & rdquo ; issu threaten peac in the region . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; it appear that in 2011 and 2014 the netanyahu govern chose to forego chang in order to maintain calm . now , suddenli , there are call to remov the bridg by member of the same parti that didn & rsquo ; t remov it for a decad . thi , despit the fact that it is well known that previou chang have alway result in a crisi . is thi controversi about the bridg or creat stumbl block for the new govern in tie with jordan ? jordan & rsquo ; s foreign minist ayman safadi ha met hi isra counterpart in what the jordan time call a & ldquo ; semblanc of normal . & rdquo ; there is a new deal to suppli jordan with water . prime minist naftali bennett ha been outspoken on the import of tie with jordan . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; for netanyahu , the kingdom of jordan wa alway a sour point . he ran into mani controversi with the kingdom date back to hi time in offic in the 1990 . netanyahu didn & rsquo ; t make progress on the plan to develop the arava peac valley with jordan , and jordan harshli slam israel dure the 25 - year anniversari of the peac agreement between the countri , demand israel return land that were part of the agreement . in 2017 , an incid with an isra secur guard in jordan , in which two jordanian were kill , led to anoth crisi . most recent , netanyahu cancel a short trip to the uae on the eve of elect after a stop in jordan appar wa nix . in addit jordan & rsquo ; s crown princ cancel a trip to jerusalem in march . relat were at their lowest point in memori . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; netanyahu ha slam jordan in recent day , critiqu the water deal and accus jordan of have tie to iran . the insinu wa that jordan had transport oil from iraq to egypt and that somehow , thi help iran . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; it is in thi context that there are rise call for the govern to make chang to the mughrabi bridg . ani chanc are like to caus a crisi . close the bridg would anger some of the jew who visit the templ mount weekli . it would also mean non - muslim could not visit the histor area near the mosqu and dome of the rock . ani chang to the bridg would lead to complaint from jordan unless there wa coordin . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; there is no doubt the bridg need to be safe , both for those who use it and becaus it stretch over a part of the women & rsquo ; s section of the western wall . there are mani question to be ask whi thi bridg issu wa never respons address for more than a decad . it appear conveni that suddenli those who were in offic for mani year and made no chang now want it close , demolish , chang or remov . like mani thing that took place over the last decad in israel where problem were manag , or what some call & ldquo ; mow the grass , & rdquo ; wa done to postpon address major issu . the bridg is a symbol of how jerusalem and israel were manag . thi crisi manag meant postpon mani major problem , such as deal with gaza & rsquo ; s constant crise , to the issu face bedouin in the negev , to ignor the crowd at meron that led to a disast , and then not investig it . the current govern want to address the issu , but stoke up issu like the mughrabi bridg appear to be a way to creat a crisi with jordan precis when jordan and israel are keen on work togeth again . whether the kingdom might be interest in be flexibl regard the bridg might be address , but such statu quo issu usual take time and are sensit becaus of the posit of the palestinian and the wakf and other author and stakehold . the king of jordan is meet the us presid on juli 19 . perhap respons polici regard the bridg will prevail . & nbsp ; & nbsp ;