israel rais eight billion dollar in bond sale , set a record with the highest - ever demand for an isra intern bond offer , the financ ministri & rsquo ; s account gener & rsquo ; s offic announc on wednesday . demand for the offer , launch on tuesday , reach $ 38 billion , and some 400 investor from 36 countri particip , the ministri ad . the bond were sold as part of the financ ministri & rsquo ; s strategi to fund the govern & rsquo ; s activ as the israel - hama war continu to impact israel & rsquo ; s economi . sell bond allow israel to rais money to cover current budgetari need by essenti borrow money from those who buy the bond . a govern bond repres a debt owe by the govern to the person who buy the bond . the govern must repay that debt in the specifi time frame and interest to the buyer . thirti - year , ten - year , and five - year bond were sold in the issu . the bond offer result show that israel would pay 135 basi point over compar 5 - year us treasuri , 145 basi point over 10 - year treasuri , and 175 basi point over us 30 - year bond . thi mean that israel will pay higher interest rate than compar us bond issu over a similar time frame . smotrich and rothenberg celebr chang in bond salesrothenberg and financ minist bezalel smotrich celebr the record - break debt issuanc , point to the high demand as an import express of foreign investor & rsquo ; faith in isra market . thi express follow a tumultu time for israel & rsquo ; s economi , as govern bond have underperform the most wide - follow global emerg market bond index by just over ten percentag point over the last six month , along with moodi & rsquo ; s cut israel & rsquo ; s credit rate last month . moodi & rsquo ; s downgrad israel & rsquo ; s credit rate to & ldquo ; a2 & rdquo ; from & ldquo ; a1 & rdquo ; in earli februari , cite materi polit and fiscal risk for the countri due to it war with hama . & ldquo ; while fight in gaza may diminish in intens or paus , there is current no agreement to end the hostil durabl and no agreement on a longer - term plan that would fulli restor and eventu strengthen secur for israel , & rdquo ; moodi & rsquo ; s said at the time . thi lower credit rate is an indic of a higher risk of invest in isra secur . thi risk impact the interest paid for isra bond . a higher - risk invest pay a higher interest to compens investor for thi risk . accord to account gener yali rothenberg , the major of similar bond offer will be on local market , such as in shekel bond sale . these offer may also impact inflat in israel . when isra buy bond , it reduc the amount of money in circul in the isra economi and so may slow inflat . israel & rsquo ; s inflat wa abov the target rate when the war began , but current , inflat is moder and stand at 2 . 6 % , & rdquo ; said bank of israel governor amir yaron on tuesday . & ldquo ; expect for inflat for the come year have risen slightli . uncertainti still prevail regard the effect of the war on inflat process , & rdquo ; he ad .