prime minist benjamin netanyahu announc to hi parti , the likud , that he would not reneg on pass the ultra - orthodox draft bill and that without the bill , the govern would not remain in place , kan reshet b report on monday morn . netanyahu & rsquo ; s announc came in the wake of minist - without - portfolio and nation uniti chair benni gantz & rsquo ; s warn that he would leav the war cabinet should the bill be pass and report of sever likud minist ' opposit to the bill . the bill , should it pass , would extend the exempt from idf conscript for haredi ( ultra - orthodox ) jew . the bill is set to be brought to a vote in the cabinet on tuesday . the subject of draft the haredim into the idf ha been a point of content , particularli in recent week , and ha spark a number of protest . protest conduct by haredi men have sprung up in citi includ jerusalem and bnei brak , where protestor have block traffic and the light rail in demonstr of opposit to the push to includ them in israel & rsquo ; s militari draft . despit netanyahu & rsquo ; s messag to likud , there ha been doubt express within the part about whether the bill could pass . likud member hanoch milwidski , in a monday interview on 103fm , express hi disbelief that the draft of the bill , as it current stand , could pass , ad , & ldquo ; i didn ' t write it . moreov , no one consult me befor they wrote it . '' in an interview with armi radio , likud mk and former isra ambassador to the unit nation , danni danon , echo milwidski ' s comment , say , `` it is clear to me that thi version will not come to a vote in the knesset . there are mani miss element , and time will allow for signific chang . '' gantz : peopl will not toler draft exempt extensionon sunday , gantz voic firm opposit to the bill , say , & ldquo ; the peopl will not toler it , the knesset will not be abl to vote in favor of it , and my associ and i can not be part of thi emerg govern if thi law pass . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; if the draft law pass on tuesday , gantz and ( minist - without - portfolio ) [ gadi ] eisenkot would leav the govern , & rdquo ; kan reshet b quot opposit leader and yesh atid chair yair lapid as say on monday . & ldquo ; it ' s a secur disast . there aren ' t enough soldier . there are more soldier today in judea and samaria ( the west bank ) than in gaza . practic , the actual war is not be conduct at the moment . '' kan also note that lapid directli attack netanyahu . & ldquo ; netanyahu wa and remain a rabbit in close room , & rdquo ; lapid reportedli said . & ldquo ; i fought with the american much more than he did as prime minist . & rdquo ;