the isra - palestinian conflict is one of the most well - known conflict around the world . & nbsp ; sinc it begin shortli after the birth of the state of israel , the conflict ha domin region geopolit for over 70 year . and as the ongo israel - hama war show , the conflict ' s import and intens show no sign of slow down . & nbsp ; but what is the isra - palestinian conflict ? where did it start ? who are the key player involv ? & nbsp ; here is everyth you need to know . where is israel ? israel is a countri in the middl east , specif in the levant region . it is steep in thousand of year of histori and ha been the home of numer civil and religi faith . israel is border by egypt , jordan , lebanon , syria , and the palestinian territori and is on the coast of both the mediterranean sea and the red sea . & nbsp ; while most countri consid it capit to be tel aviv , israel and a few other countri , such as the unit state , recogn jerusalem as the capit . where is palestin ? palestin is a self - proclaim countri , recogn larg as the palestinian territori , locat in the middl east , specif on the west bank of the jordan river ( known colloqui as the west bank ) and in a region along the mediterranean coast known as the gaza strip . it is border by israel , jordan , and egypt , with the gaza strip be on the coast of the mediterranean sea . & nbsp ; though it proclaim jerusalem as it capit , it de facto capit is ramallah in the west bank . where is gaza ? gaza , known as the gaza strip , is a part of the palestinian territori and is locat along the mediterranean coast . it border israel and egypt and ha three border cross : the erez and kerem shalom cross with israel and the rafah cross with egypt . ha israel recogn palestin ? israel ha refus to recogn a palestinian state , though progress had been made follow the oslo accord . & nbsp ; current , israel offici support the idea of a two - state solut . still , it is at odd with the propos palestinian border , as well as the issu of isra settlement in the west bank and the possibl of palestinian terrorist attack against israel . & nbsp ; howev , israel doe recogn palestinian control over certain part of the west bank . doe palestin recogn israel ? palestin technic doe recogn israel , with then - palestinian leader yasser arafat announc it as such in 1988 . thi wa reaffirm follow the sign of the oslo accord . howev , the palestinian leadership continu to have strong opposit to the state of israel , and mani palestinian faction disagre with the recognit of israel . israel is oftentim refer to by these bodi as the `` zionist occup . '' what is the palestinian author ? the palestinian author is the offici rule entiti in the palestinian territori . it is led by presid mahmoud abba and is control by hi fatah parti . & nbsp ; the pa is base in ramallah and exercis control over the palestinian - run area of the west bank , as well as claim control over the gaza strip . & nbsp ; the govern wa meant to be an interim bodi rather than a perman polit entiti . & nbsp ; offici a democraci , the palestinian author is , in practic , an authoritarian entiti , not have had elect sinc 2006 , with further attempt at have elect never actual manifest . & nbsp ; abba wa elect to a four - year term in 2005 , though hi term in offic ha continu for almost two decad at the time of write . & nbsp ; the pa ha also been accus of violat human right , censor a free press , and engag in widespread corrupt . & nbsp ; current , the pa is fractur follow the 2006 palestinian parliamentari elect , which saw the terrorist group and parti hama win control of the parliament . sinc then , a schism ha erupt between fatah and hama , and attempt at mend thi split have been unsuccess . what is hama ? hama is a palestinian islamist terrorist group that wa found in 1987 by ahm yassin . it origin lie in a muslim chariti organ , mujama al - islamiya , affili with the muslim brotherhood organ . & nbsp ; sinc it offici found in 1987 , hama ha becom infam for it terrorist activ and it staunch refus to recogn israel ' s right to exist . & nbsp ; hama won the 2006 palestinian parliamentari elect , but the palestinian author dissolv the govern and replac it with a fatah - led one , lead to the schism mention abov . hama ha fought sever arm conflict with israel sinc take over gaza , with the current ongo war be spark by hama ' s attack on southern israel on octob 7 , 2023 , which saw 1 , 200 peopl in israel kill and 250 peopl taken hostag . & nbsp ; hama ' s leadership is spread out between gaza and qatar . it leader in gaza is yahya sinwar , while the organ ' s overal polit leader is ismail haniyeh . when did the isra - palestinian conflict begin ? the start point of the isra - palestinian conflict is the subject of fierc debat sinc mani believ the palestinian nation ident didn ' t begin until the middl of the 20th centuri . in contrast , other believ the isra nation ident did not technic exist until the establish of the state of israel . & nbsp ; what is agre upon , though , is that jew and arab have conflict with one anoth in the region sinc the late 19th and earli 20th centuri . & nbsp ; thi coincid with the arriv of jewish zionist settler into the futur state of israel to escap antisemit persecut in europ . at the time , the land wa rule over by the ottoman empir , though by the end of world war i , the british took it over and institut the british mandat of palestin . & nbsp ; over the come decad , the two demograph would grow increasingli in conflict as tension grew , with the arab stage multipl revolt in the mandat . in 1947 , a plan wa propos by the british to partit israel into jewish and arab state . the jew agre , but the arab did not . & nbsp ; a year later , israel declar independ , and war wa declar . surround on all side by enemi nation , israel prove victori , and mani arab end up flee their home - an event palestinian refer to today as the nakba . & nbsp ; tension explod in the late 1980 as palestinian launch the first intifada , an upris aim at lash out at what they perceiv as an oppress isra occup . the intifada end with the sign of the oslo accord , which mani hope would lead to a last peac . howev , fierc opposit by hardlin among both isra and palestinian prevent thi , particularli with the assassin of isra prime minist yitzhak rabin and the elect of a new right - wing isra govern . in 2000 , the second intifada start up , last sever year and see multipl casualti . it ultim end follow the unilater isra withdraw from the gaza strip , though it continu to have control over gaza ' s border and airspac . while the most visibl part of the conflict now take place in gaza , there is still consider tension among isra and palestinian in the west bank and east jerusalem , where terrorist attack and bout of violenc still occur . are israel and palestin fight over gaza ? the ongo israel - hama war is fought larg in the gaza strip , but it is not a fight `` over `` gaza . onli a small minor of isra lawmak are call for the full annex of gaza . rather , the ongo war is over the erad of hama and the free of the hostag held in gaza .