the recent announc about the discoveri of an explos laboratori in the shuafat refuge camp did not surpris resid of pisgat ze ’ ev . they are use to the sound of explos and automat weapon for year and have even becom accustom to collect the bullet case from the children ’ s trampolin . thi is what neighborhood resid and journalist uri rodriguez garcia wrote thi week , with more than a hint of bitter . howev , start on octob 7 , what wa almost background nois that mani have becom use to ha turn into a real state of war . crisi in pisgat ze ' ev : fear of palestinian attack post - octob 7yael entebi , a long - time resid and candid for citi council ( although municip elect have been temporarili postpon due to the war ) , said that the craziest thing about thi situat is that it is not an area in the territori and not in gaza – but here , in jerusalem , the capit of israel . recent , parent of children who particip in sport class in a facil locat next to the secur fenc ask author to provid solut to the danger situat befor a disast occur . parent who attend even class at the teddi kollek school , near the secur fenc , are demand that arm guard be station there . so far , the municip ha author increas patrol in the area , but that solut hasn ’ t calm the parent . in fact , tension rose after dozen of palestinian tri to cross the secur fenc and were stop onli after polic were call . as a result , parent of the children who particip in the afternoon and even class at the teddi kollek school say that their children ’ s safeti is be neglect and are refus to continu “ busi as usual . ” “ there is no secur and no light . it ’ s 200 meter from the seam line . it ’ s realli scari , ” said one parent , ad that the school , about 200 m . from the hizmeh checkpoint , is onli a five - minut walk . “ the road from the park lot to the sport hall is veri dark , there is no light , and small children [ who go there ] are afraid to attend . ” as of thi week , a secur squad ha start to oper in pisgat ze ’ ev , as well as in 10 other neighborhood . “ that is veri good , ” affirm antebi , “ but it is far from be enough . our hous are a few meter away from these arab neighborhood built after the secur fenc wa erect . these are area rife with crime , the weapon there are in everyon ’ s hand , and they shoot indiscrimin . “ the palestinian who move there becaus of the afford and new construct [ are now flee ] from there for their live and return to live in the east of the citi as much as possibl . ” antebi observ that the lack of secur in the neighborhood ha been increas , and did not start with octob 7 . in respons to the commun ’ s concern , the jerusalem municip state : “ pisgat ze ’ ev ’ s commun administr hold class subject to the instruct of the home front command , accord to which hold an activ doe not requir the post of a guard or secur . “ at the same time , the commun administr team ask the home front command soldier to conduct patrol in the afternoon and even , with an emphasi on the sport hall and place where class are held . as for the light in the area , the issu will be examin and address . ” in the wake of riot and seriou disturb that have taken place recent a few hundr meter away from hous on the perimet of the commun , near the secur fenc , the jerusalem district polic announc last week that sever secur measur will be implement in the neighborhood to ensur the secur of the resid . these will includ increas patrol around the secur fenc . secur forc will also employ all exist mean to dispers disturb , and will act against those who tri to breach the secur fenc . pisgat ze ’ ev is a jewish neighborhood in northeast jerusalem , adjac to neveh ya ’ acov . it ha a mix popul of haredi , nation religi , and secular jew . it is divid into five area : central , north , south , east , and west , and is one of the ring neighborhood around jerusalem . as of may 2022 , approxim 45 , 100 resid live there ; it is one of the largest neighborhood in jerusalem . name after zionist - revisionist leader ze ’ ev jabotinski , pizgat ze ’ ev wa establish on territori beyond the green line that have been effect annex to israel after the 1967 six day war . the main idea behind the establish of the neighborhood wa to creat a jewish urban continuum between french hill and the neveh ya ’ acov neighborhood , which until then had been cut off from jerusalem in term of urban continu . land design for the establish of the neighborhood wa expropri in earli 1980 , after a long delay by the financ ministri , which fear the high cost compens some jew who own land there in the 1930 . in fact , part of the neighborhood wa own by jew who perish in the holocaust , and the heir of three of them were awar of the purchas and receiv compens for it at the time . the remain jewish owner die without leav heir , or their heir are unawar of their right to the land . the ministeri committe for jerusalem affair made the offici decis to establish the neighborhood on decemb 3 , 1980 , with the urban plan assign to landscap architect zvi dekel . the construct of the neighborhood began in 1982 , and the first hous were inhabit in 1985 . in 2007 , arab famili began move into pisgat ze ’ ev , with estim of 1 , 500 arab live there now . in 2009 , a group of rabbi call for a boycott of jewish resid who were sell or rent apart to arab ; howev , the boycott did not occur . sinc 2010 , ultra - orthodox famili began to settl there as a bridg to nearbi neveh ya ’ acov . mani move to pisgat ze ’ ev north and central pisgat ze ’ ev , which had a mix of nation religi and secular jew from the outset . pisgat ze ’ ev east , pisgat ze ’ ev west , and pisgat ze ’ ev south are still mostli popul by nation religi and secular jew , primarili young famili . ❖