the tribeca festiv announc thursday that come closer , a movi by isra director tom nesher , won the viewpoint award , the top prize in it categori . the juri said in it statement : & ldquo ; the divers film of the viewpoint categori inspir all of us to think and feel deepli . howev , when choos a winner , our decis wa unanim . thi film pull us all in from the first few frame , and we felt that we were in skill hand . it wa fierc execut and superbl perform . & rdquo ; tom nesher said , `` i don ' t have enough word to describ the huge excit , joy , and pride i feel right now . i give thank to my talent cast , the product , the festiv director jane rosenth and robert de niro , who stood up to the pressur and chose an isra film for the festiv , and the judg who chose it as the winner . '' come closer is her directori debut . isra film take the leadisra film have often won import prize and critic acclaim at the tribeca festiv , which wa creat by rosenth , de niro , and craig hatkoff to help revit lower manhattan follow the 9 / 11 terror attack . & nbsp ; david volach & rsquo ; s my father my lord and talya lavi & rsquo ; s zero motiv each won the best narr featur award . ohad knoller receiv the best actor award for yossi & amp ; jagger , while shira haa and joy rieger won best actress award there for the film , asia and virgin , respect . the nora ephron prize , name in honor of the great american jewish writer , wa given to isra director ruthi pribar for asia and lavi for zero motiv . but thi year , nesher & rsquo ; s movi wa the onli film by an isra director chosen to take part in the festiv , which prompt concern that the organ may have bow to pressur from anti - israel faction to keep the number of isra film compet in the festiv low thi year . & nbsp ; the festiv take place despit israel - hama warth festiv wa held thi year amid a rise in antisemit and anti - israel sentiment in the us follow the octob 7 massacr by hama and the war in gaza . & nbsp ; just day befor thursday & rsquo ; s prize ceremoni , footag wa post on social media of a new york subway train , reportedli at the union squar station , where mask pro - hama protest chant in cultlik fashion that ani zionist should identifi themselv and leav the train . & nbsp ; union squar is just a few stop away from the main venu of the tribeca festiv . the nova music festiv exhibit , which commemor the more than 360 victim murder at the nova music festiv in israel on octob 7 , as well as the 40 taken hostag , is also be held near the tribeca festiv in downtown manhattan . pro - hama protest demonstr outsid the exhibit earlier thi week , carri flag of hama & rsquo ; s arm al - qassam brigad terror wing and of the terrorist hezbollah group , and hold sign with slogan that includ & nbsp ; & ldquo ; long live octob 7 & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; the zionist are not jew and not human . & rdquo ; protest call the exhibit `` pro - genocid zionist propaganda . '' in addit to be a win for israel , the prize is a person triumph for nesher , whose father , avi nesher , is one of israel & rsquo ; s most acclaim director . & nbsp ; the movi wa inspir by the death of her brother , ari nesher , in an accid in 2018 , although it is not strictli autobiograph . & nbsp ; it tell the stori of eden ( lia elalouf ) , a troubl young woman from an upper - class tel aviv famili whose brother die suddenli . in the aftermath of hi death , she discov he had a girlfriend , maya ( darya rosen ) , whom he kept hidden from the famili . & nbsp ; eden becom obsess with maya and track her down , convinc maya to go with her to sinai . the two young women are drawn togeth in an intens bond forg in pain , and their stori take a passion and danger turn . '' in these difficult day , when we see boycott of isra art and huge demonstr around the world ( and in new york in particular ) , it is a [ matter of ] great pride for us that the film wa chosen to be shown at a prestigi festiv like the tribeca festiv , in the heart of manhattan , & rdquo ; nesher said in a statement when the film wa accept to tribeca . the lead actress , elalouf and rosen , are both newcom , and the rest of the cast includ ido tako , yaakov zada - daniel , and neta garti . musician shlomi shaban also ha a role . & nbsp ; among the film & rsquo ; s produc is anthoni bregman , an american produc who ha made indi classic such as michel gondri & rsquo ; s etern sunshin of the spotless mind , as well as such recent film as nicol holofcen & rsquo ; s you hurt my feel and john carney & rsquo ; s flora and son . nesher , who ha made sever acclaim short film , most recent and now shut your eye , and who wa a correspond for reshet 13 , ad , & ldquo ; my heart is full of pride for my dear partner in the creation of the film -- the actor and actress , the crew , and everyon who took part in thi long and excit journey . our soul is complet invest in thi film , which wa creat out of great pain and with a lot of love for life and their strength . come closer is intend for everyon who choos life , even after loss and endless pain . . . i ' m wait for the day when the film meet the isra audienc . '' the movi is tent schedul to be releas in israel in the fall .