garfield , that lazi , lasagna - love cat , is back , in the garfield movi , which open throughout israel thi week , and thi feroci selfish felin may be just the charact we need to spend a coupl of hour with right now . the movi , which did not have advanc screen prior to press time , is the latest screen portray of the surli pet . those who like to take their children to english - languag movi rather than dub version of anim movi are in luck , becaus thi is be releas in theater in two version , one dub into hebrew and one in english with hebrew titl , probabl becaus garfield movi tend to appeal to adult as well as kid . there & rsquo ; s someth liber and almost polit incorrect about see a charact as glutton , lazi , and bossi as garfield . other than jame bond when he & rsquo ; s not on a mission , what charact get to do what he want to do all day , everi day ? right , onli garfield . thi time , sadli , bill murray , who voic the cantanker cat in the 2004 garfield movi and in 2006 & rsquo ; s garfield : a tail of two kitti , is not around . murray & rsquo ; s vagu hostil hipster persona wa perfect for the charact . thi time , chri pratt voic a slightli less cynic , slightli more energet - sound garfield . the new film is all anim , unlik the previou two , in which garfield wa anim and digit insert into live - action scene . the plotw learn how jon arbuckl ( nichola hoult , who made hi big - screen debut over 20 year ago , play the teen who befriend hugh grant in about a boy ) first met hi veri pride pet . jon wa have a slice of pizza in a restaur when he saw garfield , then a kitten , look piti outsid . jon invit him in , and garfield consum the pizza and everyth not nail down . thi film featur the usual garfield antic , but then get into a plot that tell the stori of how garfield get back in touch with hi father , a scruffi alley cat name vic , voic by samuel l . jackson , of pulp fiction and so mani other movi . & ldquo ; i & rsquo ; m mix up with some bad cat , and i need your help , & rdquo ; say vic . garfield repli , & ldquo ; i haven & rsquo ; t seen you for year , and when i do , you pull me into a life of crime . & rdquo ; vic ask if he ha ever jump a train , to which garfield respond , & ldquo ; i & rsquo ; ve never jump . & rdquo ; vic is be blackmail by hi former associ , jinx ( hannah waddington of ted lasso ) , and he want to pay her to leav him alon so he can concentr on hi next heist : a larg - scale robberi of lactos farm , after which he promis they will be set for life . liz , jon & rsquo ; s sometim girlfriend and garfield & rsquo ; s veterinarian , is play by dev joshi . ving rhame ( who play jackson & rsquo ; s gangster boss in pulp fiction ) and cecili strong of snl portray charact who get mix up in the heist , while rapper snoop dog voic a charact call snoop cat . if you & rsquo ; d like to see the older version of garfield , you can watch the garfield show , a seri from about 15 year ago , on netflix . the two bill murray movi are avail on disney + and appl tv + . garfield start out as a comic strip , creat by jim davi , that wa publish in an indiana newspap in the late & rsquo ; 70 and wa origin call jon . rais on an indiana farm with 25 cat , davi later work in advertis and creat the comic strip , think at first that reader would connect to stori of the nebbishi jon , but everyon love garfield so much that he quickli had to chang the name and the focu of the comic , admit that garfield had turn out to be hi boss . soon , the cartoon wa syndic in thousand of newspap and now is also avail onlin at garfield . com / . davi attribut some of it success to the fact that it is apolit . & ldquo ; my grasp of polit isn & rsquo ; t strong , & rdquo ; he admit in an interview . while the movi alway have a fairli complic plot , children see them tend to respond most strongli to the silli stuff , like jon give the scowl garfield a bath and blow - dri hi fur . and there look to be enough of that here to keep them amus .