white bird is a new holocaust drama that open in theater around israel on thursday , book - end by a frame devic that featur helen mirren , and most of it is grace done and quit move . base on a novel by r . j . palacio , the author of the best - sell wonder , which is referenc at the begin , it ha moment of heavi kitsch toward the end , but by then you may be so caught up in the stori , that you can forgiv the laps . & nbsp ; were the narrat who tell the stori in the frame devic anyon other than the incompar mirren , one of the greatest actress of all time , white bird wouldn & rsquo ; t have work nearli as well as it doe . & nbsp ; what is white bird about ? the movi open with a short section show julian ( bryce gheisar ) , mirren & rsquo ; s grandson , start at a new , fanci privat school in new york . thi actor play the same charact in wonder , a bulli who torment the hero becaus of hi facial deform . at the end of wonder , he is be transfer to a new school , and in the open of white bird , we see him come home , feel deject after a day at that school . the cool kid have reject him , lead him to be mean to an earnest , uncool minor student who invit him to a polit club . when he get into hi apart , he hear a nois and is startl , not expect anyon , sinc hi parent are usual out at rich peopl & rsquo ; s fundrais . as soon as he see that the unexpect visitor is hi grandmoth , play by mirren , we are as pleas to see her as he is . & nbsp ; she know the stori of how he bulli the other boy and wa made to switch school , and she chide him for be & ldquo ; unkind . & rdquo ; in order to explain to him the import of kind , she say she & rsquo ; d like to tell him a stori about her girlhood in franc dure world war ii , and we settl down happili becaus if you can & rsquo ; t see mirren on screen everi moment , the next best thing is hear her voic . & nbsp ; we then move into the main part of the stori , which focus on hi grandmoth , sara ( ariella glaser ) at the age of 15 , when she wa live in a villag in the alsatian region of franc in the earli 1940 , where the nazi were in control but were not harm jew & ndash ; at first . sara & rsquo ; s mother ( olivia ross ) is a teacher and her father ( ishai golan , who is veri good in a small role ) is a surgeon , and she ha a comfort life . popular at school , she hang out with her girlfriend , ha a crush on the handsomest guy in the class , and is a gift artist . her teacher advis her to embrac her artist gift and not hide her true self . & nbsp ; but soon , there is no hide the fact that she is jewish , and after antisemit law are pass , her father make a plan for them to flee . befor he can put hi plan into effect , the nazi and french collabor stage a roundup of jew at sara & rsquo ; s school . hide in the wood , she is approach by julien ( orlando schwerdt ) , a classmat with a limp due to polio , whose father is a workman , who bring her to see hi parent ( gillian anderson and jo - stone few ) , who embrac her unquestioningli and hide her in their barn . they would have taken her into their home but are afraid that their taciturn upstair neighbor are nazi support . & nbsp ; the heart of the film is the connect that form between sara and julien as she realiz she wa wrong to have teas him with her friend and begin to see that she wa spoil and led a privileg exist up until the nazi takeov . julien is consider and bright , and they begin to fall in love , as they sit in hi parent & rsquo ; old car , which is park in the barn , and imagin they are take trip around the world . there is a white bird that fli in & ndash ; henc the titl & ndash ; and they see it as a harbing of better time . the young lead are veri appeal and thi section is love , although we know it can & rsquo ; t last . & nbsp ; as white bird move along , i couldn & rsquo ; t help wish that the movi had allow it compel , mostli young cast and the power of it stori to carri the drama , without resort , in the final 15 minut or so , to speech that are so liter they are unnecessari and annoy and a few other quasi - supernatur flourish , almost a magic realism approach . i know thi sort of storytel ha it fan , but i feel that in a holocaust narr , it & rsquo ; s more effect and more honest to stick close to the truth . howev , i understand that thi is meant to be a film that will attract teen and tween , as well as their parent , and so an approach that show the horror in a realist way & ndash ; like in the movi , & nbsp ; son of saul & ndash ; wa not in the card here . everyon speak english with slight accent , too , and you just have to accept that . & nbsp ; despit it flaw , it doe not trivial the holocaust , and just bare manag to avoid be part of that mini - genr i have name & ldquo ; feel - good holocaust film . & rdquo ; there have been other holocaust movi that have made egregi and dishonest evas , soften the horror in a misguid attempt to attract audienc , such as the boy in the stripe pajama or la rafl ( & ldquo ; the round up & rdquo ; ) , which wa also set in franc . i wrote about la rafl , in a review titl , & ldquo ; the good , the bad , and the cute , & rdquo ; that , & ldquo ; a viewer who knew noth of the true event of world war ii would think there wa a guardian angel that look out for sweet young children . & rdquo ; in white bird , at least , it is clear that innoc peopl , even veri cute one , suffer terribl at the hand of the nazi and their collabor , and even paid with their live . the two likabl young lead and mirren elev thi to a film that doe have genuin touch moment and i hope it will be seen by the young viewer it seem to have been made for . & nbsp ;