■ for mani year anyon speak of the voic of israel wa refer to israel public radio & ndash ; and some broadcast still do . but sinc octob 7 , the & ldquo ; voic & rdquo ; of israel ha becom michal herzog , the wife of presid isaac herzog . although mani peopl have spoken out against the cruel , inhuman conduct of hama , particularli the brutal attack on women by hama sadist , few have spoken out as frequent or in as mani influenti circl as michal herzog , who ha made elimin violent sexual abus and the use of women and children as weapon of war as her caus . she bring the subject up in convers at everi opportun and doe not allow her listen to forget that the key victim are those isra women abduct by hama . & ldquo ; they can not cri out for themselv , & rdquo ; she tell her audienc . & ldquo ; we have to be their voic . we have to cri out for them . & rdquo ; she ha heard the most shock and heart - break stori about these women , and she ha ampl opportun to speak out on their behalf dure the month of intern women & rsquo ; s day , as her schedul includ somewher in the rang of a dozen event in variou part of the countri & ndash ; and she is invit to speak at all of them . among those that she attend thi week wa one host by the israel build center ( ibc ) in netanya , where other speaker focus on differ aspect of the construct and hous industri , such as architectur , neighborhood , market , interior d & eacut ; cor , the psycholog of the decis - make process and more . the event attend by numer women execut who repres vari career , wa moder by ilanit melchior , who befor she becam head of strategi at ibc wa the longtim director of tourism at the jerusalem develop author , with consider experi in both public and privat sector . she remind herzog that she had said of her when she enter the presid & rsquo ; s resid as the wife of the presid of the state that there wa no - one better suit to be israel & rsquo ; s first ladi . what ha happen in the interim vindic that opinion , said melchior . not to be outdon , ibc chairman eran roll , who wa one of a hand of men who were present , declar that isaac herzog wa the best presid in israel & rsquo ; s histori . in keep with the occas , roll wa pleas to see women in execut posit in everi field . although thi wa inde someth to celebr , the fact that there were isra hostag who were unabl to celebr , remain paramount in everyon & rsquo ; s conscious . on everi seat , there wa a yellow tulip & ndash ; a flower whose petal are usual close just as the hostag are in closur . yellow , of cours , symbol the readi to welcom the hostag when they eventu return home . launch the oxford israel alumni societi ( oia ) & nbsp ; ■ a celebr of anoth kind is also be held in israel today , march 8 . british ambassador simon walter will host the launch of the oxford israel alumni societi ( oia ) at a recept at hi resid in ramat gan . it & rsquo ; s not just becaus he repres the uk in israel . he also happen to be an oxford alumnu . the oia is an offici alumni club repres the univers of oxford in israel . more than 600 isra have enrol at oxford in recent decad . the univers is consist rank among the top univers worldwid . despit the rel larg number of oxford alumni ( includ immigr ) live in israel , there ha not been an activ offici alumni societi in the countri in recent year . among the peopl attend the societi & rsquo ; s open function will be anita leviant , presid of the israel - uk chamber of commerc , and neta gruber perri , director at the innov author , who will each speak on israel & rsquo ; s contribut to impact invest , focus on the health and climat sector . the univers of oxford alumni board ha offici appoint attorney simon kotlerman , dr . aviv yehezkel and tomer amir to head the israel societi . kotlerman is a social entrepreneur and busi develop manag ; yehezkel is cofound of the cybersecur start - up cynam ; and amir , is a technolog expert . all three are alumni of the prestigi sa & iuml ; d busi school . within mere a month , sinc get start , they have manag to attract more than 100 oxford graduat as found member . & rdquo ; it is with great excit that we inaugur the oxford israel alumni societi , a vital part of oxford & rsquo ; s worldwid alumni network , & rdquo ; said kotlerman . & ldquo ; thi societi is set to becom a key venu for collabor project and enhanc relat within our global commun . & rdquo ; yehezkel see the societi as a vital channel for strengthen israel - uk relat . & ldquo ; by bring togeth alumni from variou field in israel , the societi aim to creat a support commun and provid a distinct channel for reinforc the isra ecosystem through connect with the uk , & rdquo ; he said . the 96 - year - old who show up in uniform when need ■ technic , isra who have serv in the idf , are automat part of the reserv forc and are call up for duti up to the age of 40 , though mani keep go much longer . but it & rsquo ; s doubt that anyon can beat the record of ezra yachin , 96 , who still show up in hi uniform whenev he feel there is a need . dure the period of the british mandat , he wa an underground fighter and belong to lehi , a right - wing paramilitari organ . onc independ wa declar , he wa a combat in most of the war in which israel wa engag , and after that took on other militari assign . thi week he join other activ and veteran reservist at the presid & rsquo ; s resid , where presid herzog who is a histori buff wa possibl more interest in meet yachin than the latter wa in meet the presid . american media outlet discov yachin mani year ago and have featur him sever time on televis and in newspap and magazin . jerusalem ' s upcom biennal ■ among the exhibitor in the upcom jerusalem biennal run in the capit from march 25 to april 29 and direct by ram ozeri , is intern - known photograph joan roth , whose work will be among thirti exhibit of vari art form that collect come under the head of contemporari jewish art . roth & rsquo ; s exhibit , which includ some of her earli work , actual open earlier and goe on display at the black box galleri on march 11 . more than half a centuri ago , roth set herself a photograph mission to make jewish women visibl . judg by the tribut she receiv from the late alic shalvi , the founder of the israel women & rsquo ; s network , and author with her late husband of an encyclopedia of jewish women , roth ha obvious succeed . shalvi wrote : & ldquo ; joan roth ha the gift for see the signific moment , the meaning gestur , the fleet look which convey an in - depth charact , a lifetim of experi , an entir cultur ... joan & rsquo ; s gaze is a femal gaze and , in the capac to penetr below the surfac to the essenc of women & rsquo ; s live , it is a feminist gaze which doe not objectifi but rather empath , sympath , identifi with the subject of her work & rdquo ; . for thi exhibit , roth ha blown up photograph that were origin print in a consider smaller size , the new dimens also creat new impress . assaf granit set to be kosher & nbsp ; ■ celebr chef assaf granit and hi partner uri navon are final go to be kosher . after all the non - kosher restaur that their mahaneh yehuda group ha open in israel , london , and pari in the past , their upcom ventur in jerusalem & rsquo ; s rehavia neighborhood will be , accord to a report in yediot aharonot , a kosher dairi and fish restaur . but that & rsquo ; s not all . the restaur will be integr to a 22 - room boutiqu hotel , which will be their first step into the hotel industri . the hotel will be hous in the molcho build which is a protect heritag site . & nbsp ; greerfc @ gmail . com