on us presid joe biden & rsquo ; s flight to tel aviv on wednesday , nation secur spokesperson john kirbi said biden would be ask prime minist benjamin netanyahu & ldquo ; some tough question . & rdquo ; among those tough question were certainli one about what israel would do to prevent as mani civilian casualti as possibl insid gaza , what israel would do to prevent a humanitarian crisi , and how jerusalem plan to respond to hezbollah provoc in the north . and one of those tough question wa sure a simpl one : what is the endgam ? what is israel & rsquo ; s plan and vision for the gaza strip the day after ? israel clearli state the goal of thi war : to destroy hama and remov it control over gaza . but what happen the day after ? then what ? amid the horror , shock , and furi that ha grip thi countri sinc octob 7 , there ha been littl public discuss insid israel of thi issu and the futur of the gaza strip . from an isra point of view , thi is entir understand . with the blood still boil from the horrif simchat torah massacr , the countri & rsquo ; s focu is simpli on uproot hama , on deliv the terrorist organ a mortal blow . & nbsp ; everyth els can wait , includ apport blame and respons for the catastroph and think about what come next . but for washington , a & ldquo ; we - will - deal - with - thi - later & rdquo ; attitud is not enough , and for biden to be abl to sell continu support for israel to hi parti and hi countri , he obvious want to know what polici he is support and what israel want to do after hama is expel . hama : short - term vs long - term goalsdeliv a devast blow to hama and remov them from power in gaza are short - term goal . but what is the long - term goal ? thi is import to defin becaus some will onli support short - term goal if they know the long - term plan . and thi place israel in a dilemma becaus it ha never articul ani long - term plan for gaza . befor octob 7 , israel & rsquo ; s polici toward gaza could be sum up as contain terror until hama either realiz that it is not in their interest to pursu terror or someth big happen and it is driven from power . well , now someth big ha happen , and israel is determin to drive hama from power . biden came here partli to hear from israel what come next . on the face of it , the option are rather limit . the first option is that israel re - occupi gaza -- either the whole area or part of it -- and remain there indefinit . the logic behind thi is that the onli way to ensur that , onc kick out , hama doe not return is for israel to be in control . while two week ago thi idea would have been dismiss as the rant of the far - right , the simchat torah atroc have brought discuss of that into the mainstream . even though presid isaac herzog ha said publicli that israel ha no intent of do thi , the idea is out there . in a 60 - minut interview on sunday , biden relat to thi and said that , in hi estim , such a move would be a & ldquo ; big mistak . & rdquo ; he certainli made that posit clear in hi meet here on wednesday . after dismantl hama , a second option is for israel to hand control of it and it more than two million resid to the palestinian author . the problem with thi option is that the palestinian author , both weak and highli unpopular among palestinian , can bare control the area in the west bank current under it control , let alon take on a much bigger project . & nbsp ; in thi scenario , hand gaza over to the pa , which the palestinian author lost control of in 2007 in a bloodi coup , would like necessit israel retain the right to enter the gaza strip , as it doe current in palestinian town in the west bank , for secur reason . a third option would be for egypt to take control of the area , someth egyptian presid abdel fattah al - sisi ha made abundantli clear he ha no interest in do . and anoth option would be for gaza to come under the administr of some kind of intern consortium , perhap an intern peacekeep team or a group of state from the organ of islam confer . thi option , too , is consid unrealist . first , few countri are bite at the bit to take on thi chore . second , israel & rsquo ; s experi with intern peacekeep keep terrorist group out of territori ha not been good , as evidenc by the situat in southern lebanon , where peacekeep have been unabl to keep hezbollah from take control and threaten israel . in addit , invit intern actor into an area where israel might continu need to engag militarili is onli invit troubl . sinc none of those possibl are particularli attract , develop other , perhap more creativ idea is need to present as an endgam . have an endgam is essenti not onli to answer biden & rsquo ; s question but also for other reason , includ to help israel & rsquo ; s public diplomaci effort as the war grind on and the focu , as is alreadi the case , move from the octob 7 massacr to the devast in gaza . isra spokespeopl interview about the situat have so far been abl to deflect question about an endgam by say & ldquo ; first thing first , & rdquo ; first let the countri defeat hama , and then israel will deal with the futur of gaza . & nbsp ; but the countri & rsquo ; s public diplomaci effort would be help if the spokespeopl said , & ldquo ; we are destroy hama today , and thi is what we want to see happen tomorrow . & rdquo ; in the need for an endgam , israel should learn from the experi of the 1967 six - day war . israel won that war , but never succeed in clearli defin what it hope to see down the line . it never defin clearli , and still ha not defin clearli , what it endgam wa for judea and samaria . and it suffer from that lack of clariti . as the palestinian demand a complet return to the 1967 line , israel alway said what it want depend on what the arab said , what the american want , and what the palestinian would agre to . but israel never state clearli what it want to do with the territori . it alway depend , but depend is not polici . one can not achiev what one doe not defin . israel alreadi need to defin what it want to see happen in gaza when the war end and hama is destroy . onli then , mayb , will thi be achiev .