the meir amit intellig and terror inform center on monday publish a report explain whi hama did not fire rocket in respons to the jerusalem flag march last month , despit threaten to do so . the decis to back off it threat wa multiprong , accord to the intellig center & rsquo ; s report , which wa prepar by former senior isra intellig peopl who have ongo contact with current isra intellig offici . the reasonsfirst , hama said it had succeed in get israel to chang the path of the march to a less provoc one as far as al - aqsa mosqu wa concern . even though israel never intend that the flag march rout would go near the mosqu , hama made the statement for propaganda purpos , the report said . second , hama said israel wa extraordinarili well prepar both becaus it wa carri out a major nation idf train exercis and wa on heighten secur alert follow the hama threat . thi meant that hama would be unabl to achiev a surpris as it did in may 2021 . third , hama said mani countri had beg it not to fire rocket . although the gaza strip & rsquo ; s ruler said they had not been influenc by these appeal , their spin doctor put forth the commun as evid of the increas statur of the organ in the region . as time went on , hama becam more defens as it endur more verbal attack from variou group in gaza for have fail to follow through on it threat . hama restat some of it origin defens for not have attack in a more apologet manner , but it also said it wa not the right time to put the gaza strip through an entir wide round of conflict with israel follow the may 2021 war . hama offici said the terrorist group did fire eight rocket on may 28 , the day befor the flag march , into the sea , demonstr that it still had rocket - fire capabl . israel respond to that demonstr by send messag to hama that it had no intent of escal the flag march issu , but if hama actual fire on israel , it would face extrem repercuss . part of hama & rsquo ; s problem wa that it leader in the gaza strip , yahya sinwar , made a veri strong speech on april 30 that appear to directli commit it to conflict with israel . ultim , hama & rsquo ; s true intent were not to get gaza drawn into anoth conflict , but rather to tri to incit east jerusalem resid , arab - isra and west bank palestinian into a conflict with israel over the flag march , the meir amit center said . in addit , though it is still too earli to say , the spring spike in terrorist attack seem to wane in mid - and late may , and thi may have influenc ani hama plan to inflam the situat , the report said .