the french movi the sixth child , which open in isra theater on thursday , bring to mind the famou line from jean renoir & rsquo ; s the rule of the game : & ldquo ; the aw thing about life is thi : everyon ha their reason . & rdquo ; the sixth child , direct by leopold legrand , is an intric construct tragedi about two coupl who choos to make an aw but understand decis , and they all have their reason . what & rsquo ; s brilliant about it is that , as heartrend as thi stori is , there are no obviou villain & ndash ; other than a heartless economi and an unfeel adopt bureaucraci & ndash ; and no easi answer . as i watch the movi , my loyalti kept shift among the charact , and i wasn & rsquo ; t alway sure where it wa go & ndash ; one of the highest compliment i can give ani movi . what is the sixth child about ? the movi start out show the tough live of franck ( damien bonnard , who can current be seen in poor thing ) and meriem ( judith chemla , who star in the isra film the end of love ) , a roma coupl struggl to make end meet as they rais five children in a trailer park , which they have chosen becaus it is near good school . franck is a scrap metal dealer , and when hi partner pick a fight , he , too , get in troubl with the law . julien ( benjamin lavernh , who recent appear in jeann du barri and who wa also in the sens of wonder ) , the lawyer meriem hire to get him out of the jam , is understand and make a payment plan . to thank him , franck insist that julien and hi wife , anna ( sara giraudeau , one of the star of the bureau ) , who is also a lawyer , stop by for a beer . anna isn & rsquo ; t interest at first but then is charm by their children , and it turn out that she can & rsquo ; t have ani of her own . they have tri ivf sever time and it fail , and psychologist have given her damn report when they have tri to adopt , essenti say she want a babi too badli . a littl while later , when franck come to julien & rsquo ; s offic unannounc , julien think it is becaus he need more help with hi case . but it & rsquo ; s not that : meriem is pregnant with what will be their sixth child . they are devout cathol and an abort is out of the question , but they are alreadi pack like sardin into their trailer . franck desper need money for a new van to replac the one that wa damag in an accid ; without it , he can & rsquo ; t support the famili . so he propos an unholi deal : their babi in exchang for money to buy a new van . julien quickli shut him down : thi would be human traffick and highli illeg . but when he tell anna about the incid , she is desper to go for it . they float the idea of a legal deal : an open adopt , where they would rais the child , but franck and meriem would still be the parent and would be in the child & rsquo ; s life . but meriem can & rsquo ; t bear thi idea . she would much prefer to give the babi to thi coupl and walk away . at thi point , julien is desper to shut down the whole idea becaus he know that to pay the coupl for their babi would be wrong , legal and moral . but anna can & rsquo ; t let go of thi dream of rais thi babi , and meriem and franck have decid they will give the babi up for adopt in ani case , sinc they are in such dire financi strait . anna & rsquo ; s determin over thi babi drive a wedg between her and her husband . meanwhil , meriem is despond about the idea of give up thi babi but know she can not give anoth child a good life . the stori play out like a greek tragedi , in which each charact follow hi own destini , no matter how much sorrow it will bring . you wish for a happi end for all of them , know it isn & rsquo ; t possibl . at first i thought that the two lawyer would be portray as vile , predatori rich peopl , but the movi goe in a differ direct . they are portray as deserv of compass becaus of their infertil , and if the film is anyon & rsquo ; s stori , it & rsquo ; s anna & rsquo ; s . while it & rsquo ; s clear that capit and anti - roma racism have put franck and meriem into an imposs situat , they have a warm , love famili , which anna and julien don & rsquo ; t have . there is no explan given for the fact that they can & rsquo ; t have children , but it is devast for anna and , to a lesser extent , for julien . the four actor work well togeth , and all give good perform , but the standout is giraudeau as anna . it is she who drive the action and can & rsquo ; t give up , will to sacrific her upper - class life to becom a mother . there have been mani movi about parent who fight over children , such as sever film base on the babi m and similar case , and mani fall into clich & eacut ; s . the sixth child avoid these pitfal , although toward the end , some of the resolut feel too neat . but it & rsquo ; s still a movi where you identifi with everyon . you keep turn over their option in your mind , and will like think about the charact and the stori long after the movi end .