palestinian offici on tuesday express hope that a new isra gener elect will not disrupt palestinian author presid mahmoud abba & rsquo ; s initi to conven an intern confer for peac in the middl east earli next year . the offici , who were respond to news about the possibl that israel may be head toward it fourth elect in march 2021 , also express hope that the vote would result in an end to the era of prime minist benjamin netanyahu . in octob , abba sent a letter to unit nation secretari - gener ant & oacut ; nio guterr , urg him to hold press consult in coordin with the middl east quartet ( us , un , russia and european union ) and the un secur council on conven an intern confer & ldquo ; with full power and with the particip of all concern parti . & rdquo ; the palestinian believ the prospect of hold the propos confer have grown after the victori of us presid - elect joe biden in the us presidenti elect . & ldquo ; the purpos of the intern confer is to reviv the two - state solut after netanyahu and [ outgo us presid donald ] trump did everyth to destroy that option , & rdquo ; a palestinian offici told the jerusalem post . & ldquo ; we are confid that onc trump is out of the white hous , we will go back to the two - state solut . we also hope that isra voter , when they go to cast their ballot , would understand that netanyahu and hi govern are harm isra interest by reject the two - state solut . & rdquo ; howev , the offici said the palestinian were concern that new elect in israel would delay or divert attent from abba & rsquo ; s plan to hold an intern peac confer . & ldquo ; if netanyahu win again , we expect the biden administr and the intern confer to take real and seriou measur to compel israel to adher to intern resolut pertain to the isra - palestinian conflict , especi secur council resolut 2334 , which call for an end to isra settlement activ , & rdquo ; the offici said . while the palestinian do not meddl in the intern affair of israel , anoth palestinian offici told the post , they nevertheless would & ldquo ; like to see isra vote for candid who believ in a genuin peac process with the palestinian peopl . & rdquo ; the past four year of the trump administr & ldquo ; have been veri bad for the palestinian and the peac process , & rdquo ; the offici said . & ldquo ; we hope isra voter would be as clever as the american who said no to four more year of the trump administr . & rdquo ; he , too , express concern that new elect in israel would & ldquo ; hinder & rdquo ; abba & rsquo ; s intern confer idea . & ldquo ; the elect will undoubtedli delay our effort to hold the confer , but thi will onli be a temporari postpon , & rdquo ; the offici said . & ldquo ; we are optimist that a biden administr will endors the intern confer initi , even if netanyahu is reelect . & rdquo ; on tuesday , abba won the back of russian presid vladimir putin for the propos intern parley . moscow support hold an intern peac confer and achiev peac and stabil in the region on the basi of un resolut and intern law , putin reportedli told abba dure a phone convers , accord to a statement publish by wafa , the pa & rsquo ; s offici news agenc .