oztma yehudit mk yitzhak kreuzer , recent state hi posit and the posit of hi parti regard rafah and the hostag deal . '' the idf should have enter rafah a long time ago . we again fall into the trap of sinwar , who abus isra societi . the jewish peopl should continu to consid their interest . unfortun , what our alli did not do in 1944 , when they refrain from bomb the extermin camp , we see a direct line to today . '' our alli are prevent us from activ in rafah , which should have been carri out a long time ago . the interest that the cabinet , the govern , and the entir isra peopl should includ the return of the hostag . '' militari action is the onli rout for the return of hostageson the issu of the hostag deal , kreuzer said , `` ben - gvir order the militari oper in gaza to damag the militari capabl of hama . unfortun , the prime minist ' s answer wa to remov him from the cabinet . we are argu among ourselv over a deal that doe not exist . i think we need to understand and realiz that hama is an organ that should not exist and ha no interest in releas them . we are oblig to return them all , includ hadar goldin , who ha been there for a long time . we need to focu on our goal , and at the top of the list is to return the hostag . they can onli be return with militari action . `` & nbsp ; '' the failur on octob 7 is for all isra govern in the last twenti year . if it weren ' t for ben - gvir ' s veri firm stanc toward deal that would endang the independ of the state of israel , i think we would be in a much more difficult and danger place . the realiti is that we will not see all of our hostag return home . we need to stop listen to what come from that murder sinwar . again , the hostag can onli be return through militari action . we won ' t stand for a govern that will surrend and allow hama to continu to rule . '' regard the northern sector , kreuzer ad : `` i think that the same concept that brought us to octob 7 in the gaza strip outlin the polici in the north . we put the secur of the state of israel in the hand of foreign countri . when thi mission is over , we will certainli have to hold elect and buy the public ' s trust again . if we hold elect while fight , the system and the littl that otzma yehudit manag to do will be critic . '' edit by michal kadosh for 103fm radio