nation uniti chairman benni gantz & rsquo ; s call for a nation elect in septemb wa the first time he specifi a time for it sinc the outbreak of the israel - hama war on octob 7 . he attribut hi decis to the uptick in the intens and volum of protest against the govern over the past week . what israel need wa & ldquo ; quiet in the ballot box instead of flame in the street , & rdquo ; he said . thi argument is diametr oppos to that of prime minist benjamin netanyahu , who warn in a press confer on sunday night that an elect would creat divis and play into the hand of hama . an elect wa a bad idea when we are a & ldquo ; step away from victori , & rdquo ; he said . thi wa somewhat contradictori to a comment made earlier in hi speech , howev , when he said a humanitarian and then militari oper in rafah would & ldquo ; take time & rdquo ; and that there wa & ldquo ; no victori without enter rafah , & rdquo ; impli that victori wa not immedi at hand . either way , iron , an elect could actual eas the way forward to end the war in gaza with a hostag deal and a govern altern to hama . formal , israel head to an elect either when the prime minist resign or when the knesset pass a bill to dispers itself . onc thi happen , the govern becom a caretak govern and remain in power until the next govern take over . caretak govern are not suppos to make far - reach decis . still , they are not defin in law , and a number of signific move were inde made under them , includ former prime minist yair lapid & rsquo ; s maritim border agreement with lebanon in 2022 . as long as netanyahu & rsquo ; s govern reli on it far - right parti , the religi zionist parti and otzma yehudit , he will be limit in the concess he is will to make on a hostag deal and the futur of gaza . with the knesset offici disband , howev , the far - right parti lose their leverag ; they can not threaten to bring down the govern sinc it ha alreadi fallen . thi could pave the way for an ad - hoc coalit of at least some of the remain jewish parti , includ those current in the opposit , to move forward . accord to a nation uniti parti spokesperson , gantz & rsquo ; s call for an elect & mdash ; along with sever polici argument regard a hostag deal , the secur situat in the north , and the possibl of normal tie with saudi arabia & mdash ; wa intend to point to & ldquo ; where we are head . & rdquo ; netanyahu ha hesit to state a clear polici on what the end of the war will look like . still , he ha insist time again that it three goal & ndash ; defeat hama , free the hostag , and ensur that gaza will never again be a secur threat to israel & ndash ; will be attain . if he conclud that these can not be achiev within a reason time due to the far - right parti , disband the govern may actual enabl him to do so . of cours , thi would be a polit gambl , which netanyahu is famou for avoid . he would be feroci attack by the parti to hi right and would like lose vote to those parti . it also is not optim from a democrat standpoint becaus govern should not take advantag of their caretak statu to implement polici . but if the prime minist come to the realiz that an elect in the come year is unavoid , he may benefit from be the one to initi it , portray himself as the respons adult who is attent to public sentiment . the likud , as it usual doe , attack gantz in respons and accus him of engag in & ldquo ; petti polit . & rdquo ; with gantz make the first move , there may come a time in the come month when netanyahu realiz that gantz ha a point and make a move himself .