israel ' s cabinet on sunday vote unanim to shut down the qatari news outlet al jazeera ' s oper in israel , nearli six month after first announc it intent to do so due to secur concern relat to the israel - hama war . the decis , which requir recertif everi 45 day , includ shut down al jazeera broadcast in arab and english ; shut down al jazeera ' s offic in israel ; seiz equip use for it broadcast ; and limit access to it websit . commun minist shlomo karhi sign an execut order soon after the vote pass , and it thu came into effect immedi . video on sunday afternoon show law enforc offici arriv at al jazeera ' s jerusalem offic in the ambassador hotel . hot , one of israel ' s major televis servic provid , announc that it had shut down al jazeera ' s broadcast . anoth provid , ye , ran the follow messag on the black - out channel , `` in accord with the govern decis , the al jazeera station ' s broadcast have been stop in israel . '' in a joint statement follow the vote , netanyahu said that `` al jazeera correspond have harm the secur of israel and incit against idf soldier . the time ha come to eject hama ' s mouthpiec from our countri . '' karhi ad , `` we will take immedi action against those who use freedom of the press to harm the secur of israel and idf soldier , and incit to terror in time of war . there will be no freedom of express for hama ' s mouthpiec in israel . '' al jazeera condemn the decis , call it a `` crimin action . '' '' israel ' s suppress of free press to cover up it crime by kill and arrest journalist ha not deter us from perform our duti , '' it said . decis goe against mossad chief ' s positionisrael ' s nation secur cabinet wa schedul to hold the vote alreadi on thursday , but prime minist benjamin netanyahu delay it due to concern that the vote would not pass . accord to a spokesperson for minist - without - portfolio mk benni gantz ' s nation uniti parti , thi wa becaus mossad chief david barnea request that the govern delay it for a few day , so as to avoid possibl neg diplomat ramif relat to qatar , a mediat between israel and hama in negoti for a deal to free isra hostag . the decis requir approv from either the govern ' s nation secur cabinet ( nsc ) or the gener cabinet , and netanyahu chose to move forward on sunday in the gener cabinet . nation uniti ' s three minist were not present at the meet and did not take part in the vote . the parti said in a statement that it minist `` support close al jazeera ' s broadcast and even announc that they would support it closur in the recent ( nation secur ) cabinet meet . '' howev , `` bring the topic forward thi morn for a vote in the govern meet , is a correct decis but with terribl time , that could undermin effort to exhaust the ( hostag deal ) negoti , and stem from polit consider , '' the parti said . karhi counter by accus the centrist nation uniti of act like a `` fifth column `` within the govern . accord to karhi , the decis receiv `` unequivoc valid `` by all secur offici . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; & nbsp ; the decis wa base on a law that israel ' s knesset ( parliament ) pass on april 2 , which expir on juli 31 . the legisl will therefor need to be extend if the govern wish to extend the ban of al jazeera beyond that date . the law itself is also face a constitut challeng in the high court of justic by the associ for civil right in israel ( acri ) base on it violat of free speech , and the state ha until may 15 to file it preliminari respons to the court . the govern pass emerg execut measur at the start of the war that would have enabl it to shut down al jazeera temporarili . these were in effect from octob 21 until januari 20 . howev , the govern refrain from implement these measur dure that period , reportedli due to possibl neg diplomat ramif relat to qatar . the legisl that pass in april wa aim at give the cabinet firmer legal foot to move against al jazeera . in it decis on sunday , the cabinet explain that it had classifi opinion from the shin bet on april 9 deem al jazeera a nation secur threat . the idf and mossad also provid classifi opinion support limit al jazeera ' s broadcast in israel . accord to the law , the decis must be brought befor a region chief justic or deputi chief justic within 24 hour , who then have three day to decid whether or not to chang the decis or limit the length of the ban . in it petit to the high court of justic against the law , argu that it unnecessarili limit free speech and wa thu unconstitut . acri said that while there wa no argu the fact that al jazeera ran a `` pro - palestinian `` narr , thi wa not a suffici reason to shut down the network . in addit , the network provid content from arab state and includ isra arab perspect that have been quot numer on mainstream isra media , indic that it content wa view as import , acri ad . the ngo acknowledg that al - jazeera had includ content that incit against israel . still , the sever of thi incit wa no wors than incit against palestinian on mainstream isra websit , acri argu . acri file a request on thursday that the court issu a temporari order bar the govern from decid to shut down al jazeera until the case is heard . the court deni the request , and said it would consid a temporari order after receiv the state ' s preliminari posit .