hama , through a senior offici , state it readi to enter a ceas - fire of five year or more with israel and transit into a polit entiti if an independ palestinian state is establish along pre - 1967 border . the offici , khalil al - hayya , consid sinwar & rsquo ; s right hand , express these view dure a recent interview amidst stall ceas - fire negoti . & nbsp ; al - hayya indic thi would onli be a temporari stanc until palestinian retain their & ldquo ; histor right to all palestinian land . & rdquo ; the palestinian politician suggest hama ' willing to join the palestin liber organ and form a unifi govern for gaza and the west bank and the dissolut of it militari wing . despit the devast caus by recent hostil , al - hayya dismiss isra attempt to erad hama but spoke about a possibl truce soon . & nbsp ; dr . ghassan khatib , a lectur at birzeit & rsquo ; s univers and former minist of labor for the palestinian author , provid hi perspect to the media line . `` it ' s worth wait to see if thi statement reflect a signific shift , '' he note , highlight a common inconsist between individu remark by hama leader and the group ' s offici stanc . dr . khatib further explain the intern dynam within hama : `` the statement can also reflect dissent and the debat within hama . differ leader have differ view , but it could also be a tactic , consid the immin threat of the isra armi to enter rafah . `` & nbsp ; he ad that while the promis to dissolv the militari wing and pursu a sovereign state wa notabl , `` hama be will to put it gun down isn & rsquo ; t someth you hear everi day . dissolv the militari wing of hama and fall in line with a sovereign palestinian state on the 1967 border would bring a power chang . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; whatev the reason they make thi statement now , it & rsquo ; s import to dialogu with hama becaus they are a veri relev part of palestinian intern polit . whether the isra like it or not , that & rsquo ; s the fact . even if the statement made by al - hayya ha condit unlik to be accept by israel , it is import to continu the dialogu , and thi is also true for america and other western countri , & rdquo ; he conclud . natur skepticismwhil dr . khatib emphas the import of dialogu with hama despit skeptic about their intent , some suggest a more cautiou perspect , question the sincer of hama ' statement and suggest that their motiv may be influenc by the immedi threat of isra militari action . chuck freilich , former deputi nation secur advis and senior fellow in inss , told the media line , & ldquo ; hama is awar of it immin demis if the idf enter rafah . make remark statement , such as the one made by al - hayya , give them more time and feed into the narr believ by their support worldwid . still , isra leader should pursu thi dialogu in the futur if we have a differ govern . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; if thi statement made by al - hayya is seriou , then they should be open to dialogu after the isra conduct it plan to go into rafah . it ' s doubt that israel would entertain such dialogu , as it remain commit to dismantl hama . after hama is remov from rafah , then the palestinian should announc an initi with their top leader or with a formal declar , & rdquo ; conclud chuck freilich . while hama ha previous maintain a hardlin stanc against israel , thi shift toward a potenti two - state solut repres a notabl concess . howev , it remain unclear if thi signifi a perman resolut to the conflict or mere an interim step toward hama ' longstand goal of israel ' s destruct . & nbsp ; israel nor the palestinian author have yet to comment .