israel & rsquo ; s high court of justic on tuesday held a signific hear in a petit put forth by sever organ against a law pass by the coalit in late decemb 2022 that expand the author of the soon - to - be , now - nation secur minist , mk itamar ben - gvir . the case reach it climax after a seri of procedur stage and wa heard in front of an expand bench of nine high court justic . it wa pass in the knesset on decemb 27 , two day befor the current govern wa sworn in , after ben - gvir set it as a precondit for hi join the coalit . the law wa an amend to israel & rsquo ; s polic law ( also known as the polic ordin ) . it anchor the polic & rsquo ; s subordin to the govern , as well as allow for the nation secur minist to set polici and gener principl . further , it enabl the minist to set polici regard investig after consult with the attorney - gener , the polic commission , and the offic respons for investig . the lead petition , the movement for qualiti govern in israel ( mqg ) , argu at the hear that ben - gvir & rsquo ; s conduct sinc take offic prove that the law wa danger , as it de facto enabl the minist to interven in oper matter , includ in the treatment of individu protest against the govern . mqg chairman adv . eliad shraga said to report outsid of the courtroom , & ldquo ; we have seen everyth that we have warn against come true in the last year and a half . we have seen the minist meddl in the polici regard investig ; we have seen the minist meddl in oper law enforc polici ; we have seen the minist meddl in appoint polici ; and we have seen the minist run the polic . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; thi is an abnorm situat where the polic are effect a militia at the servic of the minist . we live in a democrat countri , and so we insist that the amend to the polic ordin be repeal & mdash ; that the israel polic be an institut of the state , subject onli to the rule of law , & rdquo ; shraga punctuat . other petition includ yesh atid mk yoav segalovitz and mickey levi , both of whom serv in senior role at the polic in the past ; the labor parti ; the associ for civil right in israel ( acri ) ; and the high follow - up committe for arab citizen of israel . adv . aner hellman of the attorney - gener offic & rsquo ; s high court of justic divis argu dure the hear that the part of the law regard investig need to be struck down as unconstitut sinc it did not includ provis to protect citizen from violat of human right . hellman ad that the part of the law give the minist the abil to set polici should also be struck down unless the court clarifi what exactli qualifi as & ldquo ; polici . & rdquo ; accord to hellman , & ldquo ; polici & rdquo ; must be defin in advanc and can not be set dure a specif addit . moreov , the legal of these polici decis must first be deem legal by the ministri & rsquo ; s legal advis . a lawyer for ben - gvir , adv . nadav haetzni , argu in respons that the fact that ben - gvir ha made controversi polici decis sinc take offic doe not mean that the law itself is unconstitut . accord to haetzni , the minist should have the right to set gener polici , and if the minist gave specif oper order , these could be challeng in a separ process in the high court . in refer to thi , hellman and other argu that illeg oper direct given by ben - gvir could not alway be appeal in real time and that the potenti for human right violat wa seriou enough to render the law unconstitut . the law should especi clarifi that the polic , and not the minist , were respons for make decis in real - time regard protest against the govern . ben - gvir attend part of debateben - gvir attend part of the debat and at one point even interrupt hi attorney , say that he would not agre to be a & ldquo ; plant , & rdquo ; i . e . , a passiv observ of the polic & rsquo ; s action . thi continu a claim made by ben - gvir on tuesday that outgo israel polic commission yaakov shabtai and the attorney gener & rsquo ; s offic were collud against him to prevent him from appli hi polici . inde , the hear came dure an ugli public spat between shabtai and ben - gvir . shabtai complain to the attorney - gener in recent week that , on numer occas , the nation secur minist had illeg bypass him and spoken directli to lower - rank polic offic . ben - gvir , in turn , accus shabtai of not function properli sinc the result of the mount meron tragedi report were made public in march . the report found sever offici , includ shabtai , former public secur minist amir ohana , and prime minist benjamin netanyahu , person respons for the catastroph in which 45 haredim were crush to death dure a mass lag ba & rsquo ; omer event at the grave of rabbi shimon bar yochai in 2021 . shabtai himself attend the hear and wish to speak , but the judg deni hi request . shabtai instead spoke to report outsid . & ldquo ; i came here today out of a deep concern for the futur of the israel polic as a profession , apolit & rdquo ; member of the polic , without ani specif agenda , shabtai said . & ldquo ; i did not come here against some minist or other . i came simpli to present our posit about the signific and consequ of thi law . expand the author [ of the minist ] could affect democraci in the state of israel , & rdquo ; he emphas .