maccabi tel aviv clip panathinaiko 91 - 87 as bonzi colson and lorenzo brown led a heroic fourth - quarter comeback to hand the yellow - and - blue a 1 - 0 quarterfin seri lead at the oaka arena late tuesday night . game 2 will be back in athen on thursday as maccabi will look to take a command 2 - 0 lead and send the best - of - five seri to it belgrad home - away - from - home due to the war back for game 3 , and game 4 if necessari . in the open , ode katash & rsquo ; s squad grab an earli lead as jake cohen pace maccabi , howev kosta slouka , luca vildoza and kendrick nunn gave ergin ataman & rsquo ; s greek team a 50 - 42 halftim advantag . mathia lessort and wade baldwin score for their respect side in the third quarter as panathinaiko stay in front 70 - 63 , but baldwin came up with a leg injuri in the fourth quarter as he help maccabi cut down the lead . still , colson and brown quickli pick up the slack with point from the outsid and insid to give tel aviv lead , while josh nebo hit a pair of crucial free throw to ice the game and steal game 1 on the road . it & rsquo ; s unknown if baldwin will play on thursday due to the injuri . while the player himself said that he will be readi to go for game 2 , the team is question if he will be abl to take part in the festiv . colson score 18 point , brown ad 16 point and baldwin chip in with 15 point in the win . lessort score 22 point , slouka put in 12 point and jerian grant score 11 point for pana in the loss . triumph , advers , and determin & ldquo ; i think we were down eight point at halftim and we were a littl bit confus defens , & rdquo ; katash began hi postgam comment . & ldquo ; we came back to our game plan and we hit some big shot on big possess on offens . but it wa everyth defens as we show charact and i am veri proud . & ldquo ; i hope wade baldwin & rsquo ; s injuri is not that bad . the last possess and last minut alway come down to big play by big player on both side . they miss their shot and we made it , but i am proud that we stuck in there and we stay focus and believ . i am realli happi . & rdquo ; panathinaiko took the loss in stride . & ldquo ; i believ that we didn & rsquo ; t deserv to win , & rdquo ; ataman said . & ldquo ; we miss 10 free throw , we made a lot of turnov and in the last two minut . everybodi & ndash ; player , staff and the club & ndash ; who tri to make a festiv befor the game [ didn & rsquo ; t help ] ... & ldquo ; the refere with two ridicul call and a 3 - point shot for baldwin . '' i complain that it & rsquo ; s not fair to give that 3 - point shot & hellip ; everyth went against us and we lost the game and lost the advantag and destroy seven month of work that we made in the regular season . if we do not go to the final four , i will not be at panathinaiko next year . & rdquo ; colson , the game & rsquo ; s mvp , spoke about the victori . & ldquo ; i want to play my game and we just fought until the end , but it wa a group effort and at halftim we spoke about what got us to thi point and we did that . everybodi step up and it & rsquo ; s one down . we stuck to what we do , play good defens and hit good shot when we need to and just stay togeth as we show our resili . we just have to keep it up . & rdquo ; back to the on - court action , konstantino mitogl and nunn score for panathinaiko as baldwin and brown did the same for maccabi tel aviv while jake cohen had the hot hand for a pair of basket to give the yellow - and - blue and earli 9 - 7 lead midway through the first quarter . nunn score in the paint , cohen drill one from deep , and slouka came in for a layup off the wing as the frantic end - to - end pace continu . maccabi kept up the pressur as nebo dunk , to which mariu grigoni dial up from long distanc , as did brown . baldwin hit a trio of free throw , grigoni and slouka went from deep , jasiel rivero score insid , grigoni again went for a corner 3 - ball , lessort put down a monster dunk to close out the frame , but maccabi held a 26 - 25 lead after 10 minut of action . grant open the second quarter with an off - balanc jumper and tamir blatt went from deep , but vildoza did the same for pana and lessort put in a deuc to keep thing close . grant score while nebo jam , but a pair of tripl from vildoza gave the host a 43 - 32 lead with five minut left in the half . colson put in a 3 - point play as nunn pick up hi third foul , juancho hernangomez and nebo trade basket and lessort dunk as ataman & rsquo ; s squad took a 50 - 42 advantag into halftim . baldwin score to begin the third quarter for maccabi , while slouka score off a brown turnov . but colson went from deep and brown score to cut the pana lead to 60 - 54 midway through the frame . tel aviv & rsquo ; s antoniu cleveland check in with a 3 - point play , rivero put in a jame webb miss , and lessort and webb trade dunk . but pana retain control as panagioti kalaitzaki hit hi free throw to keep the host side in front 70 - 63 after 30 minut . howev , baldwin got the fourth quarter off and run with a 3 - point play for maccabi and ad a pair from the chariti stripe , and colson drill in a 3 - pointer to make thing super tight almost immedi . lessort and baldwin trade bucket , rivero and lessort did the same . then tel aviv got a boost with colson and brown hit from beyond the arc to snatch a 81 - 77 lead with 5 : 56 remain in regul time . thing went down to the wire as grant came back with point for pana , while colson score in the paint , and blatt fed nebo for an alley - oop . the host refus to fold , howev , as grant knock down a huge corner 3 - ball and nunn score to tie the game up at 87 - 87 with 56 second left . but maccabi wa up for the task as brown came in for a layup , slouka threw the ball away on the penultim panathinaiko offens possess and nebo drain a pair of free throw to close out the narrow win . & ldquo ; we stuck with it , & rdquo ; said nebo . & ldquo ; we know that in playoff basketbal , the game isn & rsquo ; t go to be won in the first quarter , and we had to be resili . if they go up , we have to keep play and we can & rsquo ; t get too high or too low . we stuck to the game plan and believ in one anoth and we found a way to win the game . in a game like thi , you have to find a way and even though we & rsquo ; re tire we had to dig down deep as thi is the most import part of the season . & rdquo ;