the famili of slain journalist shireen abu akleh submit a formal complaint with the intern crimin court ask the intern commun to investig the journalist ' s death , they announc in a statement on tuesday . the abu akleh famili accuss isra soldier of deliber target shireen and anoth al jazeera journalist , cite new footag releas that day by the palestinian ngo al haq and forens architectur . & nbsp ; what do we know about shireen abu akleh ' s death so far ? & nbsp ; the investig claim to have creat a visual approxim of what an isra marksman that may have shot abu akleh would have seen from a suspect fire posit . the recreat show a blue vest individu with the bare legibl text `` press `` on the plate carrier . the investig alleg that thi prove that the soldier knowingli shot at a civilian to kill . & nbsp ; '' the evid is overwhelm . it ' s been over four month sinc shireen wa kill , '' the famili said in a statement . `` our famili shouldn ' t have to wait anoth day for justic . '' '' the evid is overwhelm . it ' s been over four month sinc shireen wa kill . our famili shouldn ' t have to wait anoth day for justic . '' shireen abu akleh familyth request for an icc investig come in tandem with a call for an independ american investig , which the famili said it would continu to demand . '' the us still ha an oblig to investig and take meaning action for one of their own citizen . but when an individu state fail to protect it own citizen , it ' s the respons of the intern commun to protect them instead . on juli 4 , the bullet & mdash ; that kill abu akleh dure a may 11 isra - palestinian jenin firefight & mdash ; wa test by a third parti and overseen by the us secur coordin . while the test wa inconclus due to the damag to the projectil , the us state depart spokesman ned price releas a statement say that isra fire had like kill the journalist . white hous press secretari karin jean - pierr assur on septemb 6 that there would be account for the death , but didn ' t specifi what thi entail . the follow day , brief controversi ensu in israel when deputi state depart spokesperson vedant patel said that the us would press israel to review it polici , practic , and rule of engag . & nbsp ; thi wa dismiss by isra leader as detach from the realiti of combat on the ground . at the jerusalem post annual confer in new york in mid - septemb , us ambassador to israel tom nide said that israel can decid for itself regard it rule of engag . '' it ' s obviou that isra war crimin can not investig their own crime , '' said the abu akleh famili on tuesday . `` there must be consequ when a militari kill civilian & mdash ; if not , it afford israel ' s militari , and ani other militari , the impun to do thi onc again . '' '' it ' s obviou that isra war crimin can not investig their own crime . there must be consequ when a militari kill civilian & mdash ; if not , it afford israel ' s militari , and ani other militari , the impun to do thi onc again . '' shireen abu akleh familyisrael ' s own investig into the incid end on septemb 5 , conclud that it wa like that an idf soldier fire the kill bullet . howev , the militari also dismiss the need for a crimin problem , sinc it would not have been a deliber action . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; there is a high possibl that shireen wa accident hit by idf gunfir that wa fire toward suspect identifi as arm palestinian gunmen , dure an exchang of fire in which life - risk , widespread and indiscrimin shot were fire toward idf soldier , & rdquo ; the idf spokesperson & rsquo ; s unit said . `` anoth possibl remain that abu akleh wa hit by bullet fire by palestinian milit . '' the abu akleh famili ha been highli critic of the us and israel throughout the investig process , and the claim that the idf deliber kill the journalist far predat tuesday ' s statement and the new al haq - forens architectur investig . al - haq is one of the six palestinian ngo design by israel as a front for the popular front for the liber of palestin terrorist organ . '' no other palestinian , american or journalist ' s famili should have to endur what our ha , '' the famili conclud in tuesday ' s statement . `` we ' re pursu account to make sure that is the case . ''