mosab hassan yousef , the son of hama co - founder sheikh hassan yousef , spoke out at the un on monday about the horror perpetr by hama . yousef spoke about hama terror attack , such as suicid bomb carri out against isra civilian , and the indoctrin of the popul in gaza & ndash ; especi children & ndash ; by the genocid terrorist group that he wa onc intim connect with . & ldquo ; today i can speak on the author of [ myself , have onc been ] a palestinian child , someon who grew up in that cultur , '' youssef said . & ldquo ; we & rsquo ; re talk about a religi group that doe not believ in polit border and want to annihil an entir race in order to build an islam state . i don ' t know what els can be said about thi & ndash ; and i don ' t know whi it is not obviou to everybodi . & rdquo ; yousef , who wrote a book titl son of hama in 2010 , ha ralli against the terror group sinc defect in the 1990 . yousef work with isra counter - intellig and help the mossad in variou oper & ndash ; includ incarcer hi own father , hama co - founder sheikh hassan yousef . '' hama ' first crime against children in the palestinian societi is not arm them or encourag them to carri suicid bomb attack & ndash ; it ' s the religi ideolog indoctrin that i had to go through with one intent in mind : to annihil the state of israel . thi is hama ' s primari goal , '' yousef said . & nbsp ; as `` a 10 - year - old child when i disobey hama , i wa tie up to a post and i wa whip by a hama top leader . my father wa in prison at that time and thi leader thought that he wa my mentor . thi is hama disciplin . thi is how they want me to be ... to becom a violent savag like them , '' the defect son said . '' son of hama `` youssef ha long spoken publicli about hi experi grow up in the west bank citi of ramallah as the son of hassan yousef , a co - founder of hama , be imprison , and becom an inform and later advoc for israel . he & rsquo ; s also spoken on behalf of media group , such as hi address at the 2019 jerusalem post annual confer , and for ngo such as in hi 2017 speech at a un human right council debat for un watch . youssef wa also the subject of the 2014 documentari the green princ . '' i am not a part of propaganda . i don ' t work for anybodi . i onli repres myself and on thi author i speak , so don ' t be mistaken and [ instead ] take my word veri care , & rdquo ; youssef said in hi remark . & ldquo ; hama is commit a crime against thi gener and the next gener to come , so blame israel is not go to solv the problem . '' sam halpern contribut to thi report .