as the condit of the idf troop serious wound in the anti - hama oper in the west bank continu to improv , a senior idf medic offic said that the two men might not have surviv if not for the quick think of the paramed who treat them . & ldquo ; they got the most advanc medic treatment in the world , & rdquo ; the senior offic said . & ldquo ; those two men , anywher els in the world , would have like die befor get to the hospit . the chanc of get to the hospit aliv were realli small . & rdquo ; rambam health care campu in haifa , where the two men are be treat , announc monday that their condit were improv . one of them regain conscious and is expect to be remov from a ventil , and ha commun with hi famili . the other is schedul to undergo a lengthi oper for hi wound . the two troop , a platoon command and hi soldier , were serious injur dure a firefight in the west bank villag of burkin when they engag arm palestinian terrorist . the idf & rsquo ; s preliminari investig is look into the circumst surround their injuri but is lean toward the possibl that they were injur by friendli fire . one of the men wa shot in the chest and lost one of hi lung while the other man wa shot in the jaw and stomach . the two are also suffer from shrapnel wound . & ldquo ; they were veri serious injur ... and from the moment they were shot , the 18 - year - old emt - p went straight to treat them . the time we have to get to an injur person and give them medic treatment is second , & rdquo ; the offic said , ad that while & ldquo ; most armi around the world have their paramed in the back , in the idf they are in the front . & rdquo ; accord to the offic , sgt . t control the hemorrhag of the soldier to stop their bleed , perform a chest drainag , and intub one of the men . the paramed also did three addit thing that save the live of the troop : he provid freez - dri plasma , gave them txa and activ decid onli to intub one of them . the powder , freez - dri plasma given to the troop help to clot their blood and prevent the badli wound men from bleed to death on the battlefield . txa ( tranexam acid ) meanwhil help to stabil the patient by coagul the blood . both were carri in the vest of the paramed . then he chose to go outsid the protocol and not to do someth . & ldquo ; our reflex is to go to someon who is sever injur and intub them . but , what we & rsquo ; ve found over the last decad is that such a decis is not alway best . if you have a bleed problem then intub might help , but if you are bleed and have low blood pressur it can actual harm the patient , & rdquo ; the senior offic said . & ldquo ; we & rsquo ; ve found that with specif type of casualti , intub actual hasten their death becaus you put pressur on the lung and heart and reduc their alreadi low blood pressur even more . & rdquo ; had sgt . t intub the second man who had been shot in the lung , & ldquo ; he might not have made it to the hospit . & rdquo ; it wa a & ldquo ; veri challeng scenario & rdquo ; and the paramed & ldquo ; did a realli great job under fire , & rdquo ; the senior medic offic said . & ldquo ; we all do our best to save our troop . there & rsquo ; s no technolog in the world that we don & rsquo ; t use . we are veri aggress in adopt new technolog and even admit when we are wrong . we keep on chang , all the time . & rdquo ; accord to the offic , it took approxim an hour from the time the two were injur until they reach rambam in haifa . they were evacu by helicopt and given sever whole blood transfus while en rout . when they reach the hospit , their ph level wa so sever that their live were at risk . & ldquo ; just imagin what their state could have been had they not receiv all the treatment that they did in the field . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; idf chief of staff lt .- gen . aviv kohavi visit the two injur soldier on monday and told their famili that the two are & ldquo ; warrior & rdquo ; who show & ldquo ; great courag & rdquo ; dure the oper . & ldquo ; it is import for you to know that if we had not stop thi network , of the hama terrorist organ , they would have been at an advanc stage and would have carri out attack in isra citi , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; your son prevent these attack . & rdquo ;