simcha rothman , the chair of the knesset ' s constitut , law and justic committe , and member of knesset from the religi zionist parti , spoke in a holocaust ceremoni at columbia univers in new york . '' we are stand on holocaust memori day at columbia univers , and the antisemit is on the rise here and in mani place around the world , '' said rothman . he spoke to listen about the ongo demonstr at american colleg , stress the import of separ protest from hate speech . jew are face sever threat in the diaspora `` in a demonstr where peopl simpli want to convey a messag , thi thi is freedom of speech , thi is legitim possibl . what we see here on campu is not a demonstr ; what we see here is support for terror and antisemit , '' he ad . in recent week , dozen of campus across the us have face occup and aggress protest by activist in a bid to forc the adopt of anti - israel polici sinc the origin april 17 columbia univers tent settlement . mani graduat ceremoni and exam season have been disrupt , and there have been incid of violenc and antisemit toward jewish and isra student and staff . rothman address thi by question whi protest , under the guis of be critic of israel , choos to discrimin against or harass jewish student . he ask , & ldquo ; if you are protest a polici , whi would you prevent student from enter campu ? whi would you block a lectur from enter the univers if he look jewish ? & rdquo ; he spoke to the existenti threat face the state of israel , which he say is fight & ldquo ; not onli to protect the safeti of our citizen , but also to preserv the live of jew around the world & rdquo ; . view thi post on instagrama post share by simcha rothman ( @ mksimchar ) he correl the struggl face by jew today with that of jew in nazi germani , say that there wa a similar & ldquo ; between what happen in germani befor the war and what is happen today on the street of the usa . & rdquo ; he finish with a messag of strength , encourag uniti between diaspora and isra jew : & ldquo ; all of us togeth , unifi , we should fight against terror and antisemit in everi possibl way & rdquo ; . michael starr contribut to thi report .