the israel - hama war ha result in displac and disrupt for peopl in both israel and the gaza strip , and donat and ngo are play a crucial role in provid meal , cloth , shelter , and other necessari item dure a chaotic time . & nbsp ; the media line reach out to two non - profit organ , one in israel and one in the palestinian territori , to discuss how each is assist it peopl . the ezrat achim medic assist center , base in the isra town of beit shemesh , west of jerusalem , provid medic equip and assist across the countri . & nbsp ; rivki tyberg , the organ ' s director of donor relat , said that befor the war , ezrat achim mainli assist peopl in the beit shemesh area , which ha no hospit . howev , follow hama ' murder rampag in israel on oct . 7 and the subsequ outbreak of the war , more than 200 , 000 isra from the northern and southern border area were displac from their home to other part of israel , necessit a shift in the organ ' s oper approach . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; as soon as the war began , we kind of mobil all the volunt and the whole network that we had alreadi set up , '' she said . `` we were abl to be cook and deliv 2 , 500 meal a day , which were for the famili who were displac by the war . we also open a pop - up shop , which wa free . they had realli come with noth , and especi as it start to turn wintri , even if they brought a bag with some cloth , they certainli didn ' t have winter cloth and coat and thing . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; tyberg said that the larg - scale displac ha becom a press issu . mani famili who came to beit shemesh are from area that suffer frequent rocket bombard from the gaza strip , but they are not from the border area that were offici order to evacu , and therefor they are not elig for hotel stay fund by the govern . howev , mani of those famili are from poor socioeconom background and can not afford to pay for extend stay in hotel . donor sent the organ fund to help pay for such famili . & ldquo ; ultim , we also were abl to get a donat from someon in america that enabl us to pay for short - term rental for some of the famili , '' tyberg said . `` we were call all the real estat agent if there were ani empti apart and tri to find place for peopl to stay . & rdquo ; meanwhil , veteran american non - profit organ anera ( american near east refuge aid ) provid humanitarian and develop aid to refuge in the west bank and gaza strip , jordan , and lebanon . & nbsp ; sandra rashe , the organ ' s countri director for palestin , told the media line that while anera ' s oper approach ha remain unchang dure the war , it ha significantli intensifi it effort to aid civilian in gaza . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we start almost 55 year ago . it start in 1967 after the [ six - day ] war that left so mani palestinian displac , '' rashe said . `` it wa creat by palestinian - american , arab - american , peopl who are interest in social justic , who want to find a way to support the mass exodu of palestinian out of palestin . prior to thi war , we work in educ , focus on earli childhood develop , shelter , food secur , health , medic donat , and commun infrastructur . all of that wa put on hold . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; it is estim that some 1 . 9 million gazan , over 85 % of the popul , have been displac in the current war , and the world health organ ha report an increas in diseas attribut to overcrowd condit in the refug area . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; sinc the respons start , we have distribut more than 6 million meal to peopl who have been displac . that includ food parcel , veget basket , and hot meal , '' rashe said . & nbsp ; '' we have facilit 55 psychosoci session for children , so they have guid activ for play and stress relief . we have 55 shelter that we clean on a rotat basi . it ' s not just our team that is work . we ' ve been abl to mobil a network of over about 450 volunt , partner , farmer , vendor , and other partner organ to support us in the work that we ' re do . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; the formid challengesboth women acknowledg encount formid challeng in deliv assist . tyberg said that urgent call from displac isra seek assist are repeatedli forc to end abruptli becaus of rocket alert . & ldquo ; i would say that the hardest part for all the peopl here in the organ and all the volunt wa realli that point where we had just gotten hundr of phone call come in from famili who were desper . they would suddenli tell us there wa a warn siren and hang up , '' she said . '' we would wait by the phone fear for their live . then they would call back , like , 20 minut later and say , ' ok , everyth ' s ok . so , listen , when could you come and get us out of here ? we ' re desper . we need a place to go . ' & rdquo ; & nbsp ; in the gaza strip , one of the major challeng face by mani volunt and worker is fear for their own live . & ldquo ; we tri to provid the coordin so that peopl , so israel , know that these are shelter for staff of an american organ work for the displac , '' rashe said . `` but our team have said time and time again that if we ' re go to die , we ' re go to die serv our peopl . we ' re go to die serv the peopl that need support . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; rashe said that fuel is crucial to the organ ' s abil to deliv food to gazan . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; our work is reliant on be abl to deliv the food to peopl in shelter , '' she said . `` have our team go to these shelter and provid the intervent and fuel is more preciou than gold right now , and it ' s one of the hardest thing to attain . and without fuel , we can ' t oper . & rdquo ; tyberg said the war is exact a heavi psycholog and emot toll on the isra popul . '' there are just so mani peopl who know peopl who ' ve been affect terribl . and it ' s just thi veri heavi feel that we all have that it ' s just inescap , just hang over everyon , & rdquo ; she said . & nbsp ; rashe call for a perman ceas - fire to end the conflict . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; i think what we ' re ask for is peopl to advoc for a perman ceas - fire . the situat is veri critic . we need a perman ceas - fire . we need a solut , '' she said . lana ikelan is a recent graduat of the hebrew univers of jerusalem and an intern in the media line & rsquo ; s press and polici student program .