the & ldquo ; maslul batuah & rdquo ; ( safe rout ) oper , which set out to stem the tide of crime in arab commun , span joint effort of nine government offic , ha record impress stride sinc it initi eight month ago . last year , the violenc in the sector explod to a dramat peak of 130 murder & ndash ; on averag , a person wa murder in arab societi everi three day . weapon seem to flow freeli in arab town , in what to local felt like a lawless land , but sinc the safe rout crackdown , the polic say they have turn the tide and restor law and order . but are the oper & rsquo ; s effect realli felt in arab commun as the polic claim ? in the enforc of the oper , mostli in the north , 3 , 871 suspect were arrest , thousand of weapon were seiz , and 1 , 153 indict were file for weapon offens across israel . sinc the begin of the year , the polic have increas their activ against weapon crime in arab commun . in the past half - year ( januari - june 2022 ) , the polic across the countri arrest 3 , 871 suspect for crime of arm robberi and shoot , and about 92 % of the suspect arrest were from the arab commun . also , in the first half of 2022 , at the end of the polic investig , 1 , 153 indict were file against those accus of shoot and assault offens all over the countri . about 88 % of the indict file for the offens of shoot and possess , traffick and use of weapon were file against defend from arab societi . in addit , 31 illeg build were destroy , a total of ni 10 million wa confisc , and , as part of the fight against road crime , over 8 , 000 traffic fine with a total valu of over ni 5m . were distribut . & ldquo ; sinc the begin of oper safe rout , the israel polic ha record signific achiev in deal with crime and violenc in arab commun , in deal with crime of extort through threat and seizur of firearm held against the law . & rdquo ; leon hirsch & ldquo ; sinc the begin of oper safe rout , the israel polic ha record signific achiev in deal with crime and violenc in arab commun , in deal with crime of extort through threat and seizur of firearm held against the law , & rdquo ; said ch .- supt . leon hirsch , head of the oper coordin section in the polic intellig divis . & ldquo ; the israel polic ha also record signific achiev in file indict for these crime which constitut a signific nuisanc to the public in arab commun . sinc the oper began , there ha been a much higher demand for polic servic , and we see thi in the respons we receiv from the resid , & rdquo ; he ad . seiz weapon , arrest criminalsdur thi period in 2022 , ten of thousand of weapon , explos , ammunit , grenad and other illeg item were seiz in town of arab commun , includ 770 handgun , and more than 100 submachin gun and 350 gun of differ type , thousand of item of ammunit , as well as hundr of grenad , weapon part and explos & ndash ; a signific increas when compar to the same time period in 2021 . the oper ha been carri out so far in 19 local , includ haifa , umm el - fahm , nazareth and rahat . after almost half of 2022 ha pass , data show that the extens oper launch by the polic to erad violenc result in success & ndash ; at least partial : until june 5 , 31 peopl in the arab commun were murder in israel , includ four women , compar to 50 murder in the first half of 2021 ( up to may 27 to be exact ) . in total , accord to polic data , sinc the begin of the year , 42 peopl have been murder throughout the countri , of which , as mention , 31 were from arab societi . so far the polic have solv onli 12 murder case in the arab sector thi year . the polic attribut thi decreas in the number of murder in the sector to the oper . murder on the risedespit the effort polic have put forward , some remain skeptic about the actual effect they have , as murder case in arab societi continu to rise , hit 55 murder up until juli , accord to data from independ ngo . while polic action are at the forefront of the oper , it is much larger in scope when look at from a broader len . effort of the financ ministri and incom tax offici , for exampl , set out to combat money launder and illeg loan , which in turn entangl mani civilian . & ldquo ; mani arab town in the north don & rsquo ; t even have a bank or ani other mean of legal handl financi affair . left out of option , they turn to organ crimin syndic , & rdquo ; ola najami - yousef & ldquo ; mani arab town in the north don & rsquo ; t even have a bank or ani other mean of legal handl financi affair . left out of option , they turn to organ crimin syndic , & rdquo ; ola najami - yousef , vice presid of the abraham initi ngo , which track crime in arab commun , told the magazin in an interview . the issu , she explain , is much larger than a simpl lack of polic . the arab commun have long face neglect from all government offic , from financ to educ . resid are often left to their own devic , someth that leav a larg vacuum for crimin to fill . arab were view as a secur threat themselvesbefor safe rout wa initi , arab were view as a & ldquo ; secur threat themselv . even though a lot of these issu were well known to the govern , noth wa done , until now . & ldquo ; the way arab societi is view and discuss ha chang ; we & rsquo ; re no longer social pariah , and a wide rang of effort is now be undertaken to give arab commun what they right deserv as isra citizen , & rdquo ; she said . the problem with crime in the commun often stem from thi larger perspect that paint arab as a collect threat . even if a plain citizen got entangl with crimin element on account of a lack of servic , he had no one to turn to when thing turn sour , a situat that not onli left an open for crime on it own but also sever hurt the commun & rsquo ; trust in the polic , further increas the reign of crimin . in town like nazareth , where najami - yousef live , you could hardli notic polic presenc , and town like jisr e - zarka didn & rsquo ; t even have a function polic station , even though the build for it exist . now , polic are make effort to increas their presenc , understand that the lack of trust from local sever impact how well they could combat crime effect . the chang is certainli be felt . jasser & rsquo ; s polic station , which had been vacant until now , is fulli staf , and town like rahat and nazareth are see more patrol car on the street . najami - yousef , a resid of nazareth herself , even state that & ldquo ; you could even hear less gunfir in nazareth these day . & rdquo ; to further the bond with the commun , the abraham initi ha organ meet between teen and polic offic from local station . the chang , najami - yousef said , is slowli start to take effect . but when look at the still high murder rate which claim the life of 11 arab in the last month , one could question the effect of thi chang . & ldquo ; these thing take time , & rdquo ; najami - yousef explain . & ldquo ; it may take up to five year until we would see a practic chang in murder . & rdquo ; najami - yousef even theoriz that the latest chain of murder could be a direct respons to polic effort , with crimin organ feel the pressur and , in turn , attempt to clean hous . polic offici claim , on the other hand , that the oper ha attain signific achiev , and that the decreas in the number of murder is felt & ldquo ; everywher & rdquo ; in the arab sector . one of the reason for thi , accord to them , is that budget are now be divert to combat violenc in the sector , make it possibl to strengthen the forc station in the arab commun and also recruit arab directli to the polic . & ldquo ; in the last five year , 800 muslim have been recruit to the israel polic . today the polic can react quickli when case of violenc occur , & rdquo ; a polic offici said . & ldquo ; along with the continu of enforc and it deepen , in order to deal with the phenomenon and complet deter it , a multisystem treatment and a deep - root chang beyond polic enforc are need , & rdquo ; said ch .- supt . hirsch . & ldquo ; the israel polic will continu the determin fight in arab societi and everywher els , all in order to maintain public peac and secur . & rdquo ; ■