after more than 30 year in offic as mayor of ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim , benni kashriel wa psych himself up to move to rome as israel & rsquo ; s next ambassador to itali . in recent year , kashriel had been offer sever opportun to get out of local polit and into the knesset . but he wasn & rsquo ; t interest . ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim wa the love of hi life , and he wa happi to stay there and devot all hi energi to it develop . but prime minist benjamin netanyahu and former foreign minist eli cohen had other plan for him , and persuad him to enter the diplomat corp . as a loyal likudnik , kashriel could refus for onli so long . but there & rsquo ; s one major obstacl by way of geographi . ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim is locat in the west bank . that hasn & rsquo ; t deter some leftist from live there , but it is a red rag to itali , which declin to accept a west bank & ldquo ; settler & rdquo ; as an ambassador in rome . even though he wa not due to take up the appoint till well into the summer , at thi stage of the game kashriel can not go back to be mayor , even though there are plenti of resid of ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim who would like to see him in that posit . hungari wa mention as a possibl altern , but the next ambassador to hungari ha been approv both by jerusalem and budapest . the ideal situat would be for israel to establish diplomat relat with anoth countri , and to accord kashriel the honor of be israel & rsquo ; s first ambassador there . but given israel & rsquo ; s loss of popular over event in gaza , it & rsquo ; s unlik for a new diplomat relationship to materi in the forese futur . quickli forgotten & nbsp ; ■ one of the sad thing about public figur is that onc they resign or retir , they are quickli forgotten . a case in point is mosh mizrahi , who in the cours of a long career serv as director - gener of both the offic of the presid and the prime minist , and met score of local and foreign dignitari while safeguard the interest of five prime minist and two presid . mizrahi & rsquo ; s successor began to captur the interest of the media , and mizrahi wa all but forgotten , except by veteran journalist and by lead figur of hi gener . like mani peopl who have led excit and meaning live , and who have made signific contribut to the histori of their respect nation , mizrahi decid to write a memoir , which he launch at the pere center for peac and innov , where speaker includ retir suprem court justic elyakim rubinstein , mk avigdor liberman , who ha known mizrahi for some 30 year , matan vilna & rsquo ; i , a former deputi chief of staff of the idf , politician , and diplomat , and efrat duvdevani , the director - gener of the pere center . all four spoke of mizrahi & rsquo ; s strong sens of patriot , hi dedic , and hi import contribut to the nation and it secur . mizrahi also took a copi of hi book to the presid & rsquo ; s resid and person present to presid isaac herzog , who , as the son and nephew of sever of the nation & rsquo ; s dignitari , wa familiar with episod and peopl mention in the book , and enjoy read about them as he skim through it . abduct holocaust historian name honore of the 2024 jan karski eagl award & nbsp ; ■ the jan karski societi ha name abduct holocaust historian alex dancyg as the honore of the jan karski eagl award for 2024 . in may 2000 , onli two month befor hi death , karski establish the award to be present to peopl who have distinguish themselv by defend human right , speak out against aggress and on behalf of the integr of ethnic and religi group and sovereign nation . a polish soldier , member of the resist dure the second world war , diplomat , academ , and author , karski wa captur by the gestapo and tortur . he wa smuggl out of prison , and , in an attempt to stop the holocaust , travel to britain and the unit state , to tell alli leader of what the nazi had done to poland and how they were extermin the jew of europ . he migrat to the us after the war , but hi heart remain in poland , where he wa alway held in high esteem , as he wa in israel , where he wa name righteou among the nation and wa award honorari citizenship . warsaw - born dancyg , who wa associ with yad vashem , and who led mani group to poland and facilit dialogu between polish and isra youth , wa abduct by hama from hi home at kibbutz nir oz and taken to gaza . both poland and israel mount campaign for hi return . dancyg wa mention by presid andrzej duda at the tradit hanukkah candl - light ceremoni at the presidenti palac in warsaw . speak in the presenc of poland & rsquo ; s chief rabbi michael schudrich and isra ambassador yacov livn , duda note that the hanukkah candl - light tradit had been inaugur by presid lech kaczynski on decemb 18 , 2006 , and had taken place annual ever sinc . duda said he is glad that after the holocaust and other tragedi , citizen of poland had over the past 30 year experienc the restor of jewish tradit and jewish cultur . dancyg is not the first member of the jewish faith to be consid deserv of the jan karski award . other have includ anti - communist dissid adam michnik , former director of the anti - defam leagu abe foxman , former presid and prime minist shimon pere , and author , philosoph and holocaust survivor eli wiesel . cancel the israel prize categori ■ it & rsquo ; s amaz the extent to which educ minist yoav kisch manag to get himself into hot water . up until now he ha manag to extric himself , but it will take a lot more effort thi time , with hi decis to cancel the israel prize award in a year in which israel most definit need a moral booster . but wors than the cancel itself is the reason for it & ndash ; the fact that the scienc prize wa to be award to eyal waldman , one of the most outspoken critic of netanyahu and the plan judici reform . initi , kisch want to simpli cancel the categori . but then he declar that becaus israel is at war , it would be inappropri to hold the israel prize award ceremoni thi year . whi ? so mani other event that are tradit held on independ day will be held as usual . look how mani event are be held around the countri for intern women & rsquo ; s day . asid from that , if kisch want to cancel or postpon the israel prize award ceremoni , whi did he not do so month ago ? whi wait till the adjud committe & rsquo ; s choic of waldman wa made public ? whi humili a bereav father whose daughter daniel and her boyfriend were murder by hama ? previou israel prize scandal ■ someth as honor as the israel prize should not be mar by scandal . unfortun , the current episod is not the first or even the second . in 1992 , emil habibi , an arab politician who wa also a gift writer , wa award the israel prize for arab literatur . arab nationalist pressur him not to accept it , but habibi , who two year earlier had been award the al qud prize for literatur , argu that hi be award the israel prize signifi offici recognit of a nation cultur , ad that a dialogu over prize wa prefer to argu over stone and bullet . there were mani jew who also object to habibi receiv the israel prize , so much so that right - wing die - hard yuval neeman , who had receiv the israel prize for physic in 1969 , return it in 1992 to emphas hi displeasur . there wa also a scandal the follow year , in 1993 , when yeshayahu leibowitz , a controversi , outspoken orthodox philosoph and scientist , wa select to receiv the israel prize . leibowitz had urg isra soldier to refus order that would in ani way be harm to peac palestinian . yitzhak rabin , who wa then prime minist , declar that he would not attend the ceremoni if leibowitz wa to receiv the prize . unwil to fan the flame of controversi on the most import nation day of the year , leibowitz declin to accept the prize . the year 2021 wa an uncomfort one for yoav gallant , who wa then educ minist , with two israel prize scandal on hi hand . one of the peopl select for the prize wa yehuda meshi - zahav , a haredi and former anti - zionist activist who found zaka and chang hi attitud to the extent of send hi son to the armi . but after it wa announc that gallant had inform him of hi select for the israel prize , stori began to surfac about year of sexual abus that meshi - zahav had inflict on both religi and secular women . as polic began their investig , meshi - zahav decid to forgo the prize and also resign from zaka . he subsequ tri to commit suicid , but wa rescu by one of hi son . howev , he remain in a coma for more than a year befor he die . in 2021 , prof . ode goldreich of the weizmann institut of scienc wa also select to be award the israel prize . hi categori wa mathemat . but gallant refus to accept the recommend of the juri , alleg that goldreich support the boycott , divest and sanction movement . goldreich deni the alleg , state that all he had done wa to add hi signatur to those on a petit call on the eu to halt it fund to ariel univers , which is locat in the west bank . the juri petit the high court of justic on goldreich & rsquo ; s behalf , and fellow prof . david harel , who wa among the israel prize winner in 2004 , offer to share hi prize with goldreich . yifat shasha - biton , who had succeed gallant as educ minist , agre with hi decis on goldreich . but a month later , avichai mandelblit , who wa then the attorney - gener , told the high court that in hi opinion the prize should be award to goldreich . in march 2022 , the court rule that the prize should be award to goldreich , who eventu receiv the prize in a privat ceremoni at the educ ministri , and announc that he would donat the prize money of ni 75 , 000 to five human right organ , includ break the silenc . netanyahu would earn browni point if he made a public statement to the effect that the israel prize is award on merit in a certain field , and that it should in no way be influenc by polit consider . he should add that even though he and waldman are at complet odd polit , he recogn waldman & rsquo ; s contribut to technolog , and will be pleas to congratul him on that issu at the israel prize ceremoni . isra professor award world & rsquo ; s most prestigi prize for brain research ■ as prize go , the media are , of cours , focus on the israel prize , and in pay so much attent , some media outlet may overlook the fact that an isra ha been award the world & rsquo ; s most prestigi prize for brain research . prof . haim sompolinski , a physicist and neurosci research at the edmond and lili safra center for neurosci at the hebrew univers and professor at the center for brain scienc at harvard univers , is the first isra scientist to receiv the brain prize , which is award by the lundbeck foundat to pioneer in the field of neurosci . he share the & euro ; 1 . 3 million prize with prof . larri abbott of columbia univers and prof . terrenc sejnowski of the salk institut . sompolinski is wide acclaim for hi groundbreak work in theoret and comput neurosci , particularli in the studi of neural circuit dynam in the brain . hi research ha significantli contribut to the understand of how neural circuit process and encod inform , map the extern world , and particip in learn and memori . through a combin of theoret and comput approach , hi work ha elucid key comput principl underli brain function . the brain prize , initi in 2011 and award annual by the lundbeck foundat , is consid the most prestigi award in neurosci . it recogn research whose work ha advanc the field , from fundament research to clinic applic . sompolinski & rsquo ; s research not onli deepen the knowledg of the brain & rsquo ; s inner work but also hold promis for applic in brain - inspir artifici intellig . in congratul sompolinski , hebrew univers presid prof . asher cohen state : & ldquo ; prof . sompolinski & rsquo ; s brain prize triumph is a testament to hi pioneer contribut in comput neurosci , unravel neural circuit dynam and lay the foundat for insight into inform process . hi groundbreak work inspir artifici intellig , blend experiment and theori to illumin fundament comput principl in brain function . & ldquo ; thi recognit not onli honor hi except achiev but serv as a beacon guid us toward further revel at the intersect of neurosci and comput . & rdquo ; sompolinski and hi two colleagu will receiv the 2024 brain prize at a ceremoni in copenhagen in june . brain prize recipi were previous present with their award by the crown princ of denmark , who is now king . it is not yet known whether he will continu to do so in hi role as monarch . sompolinski is the son of the late prof . david sompolinski , who wa born in denmark , and whose person histori wa one that point not onli to academ success but also to heroism . togeth with friend from the danish underground , he save hundr of danish jew from nazi persecut in octob 1943 by smuggl them on fish boat to a safe haven in sweden . shai piron call on haredim to enlist ■ former educ minist shai piron , who is religi and studi in sever yeshivot befor , dure , and after hi servic in the idf , ha lost friend , colleagu , and student in the war against hama . he ha call on haredim to enlist & ldquo ; becaus we need you . & rdquo ; haredim have been extrem activ in numer civilian oper on behalf of soldier and evacue . if they could take time out from torah studi , simpli to do good , whi not to defend ? then again , some haredi men who have enlist , becaus they understood the mean of mutual respons , have been disappoint by not be call to fight after a year & rsquo ; s intens train . one of them , in convers on kan reshet bet with liat regev , told her that he had not been call up , and did not know whi , and he knew of other haredi young men who had voluntarili enlist , spent a year in train , and were still sit at home , wait for a call - up . what is the point of thi if the defens establish doesn & rsquo ; t want to have haredim on the battlefield ? if it doe want them , whi not call them up when they & rsquo ; re will to fight and put their live on the line ? haredim who sign up display special courag , becaus there is so much pressur on them from their famili and their commun not to do so .■ on anoth , more person issu , piron is as pleas as punch . hi daughter or piron zomer campaign to head the oranit council & ndash ; and triumph . she is one of the veri few femal council head in israel .■ most of the mani intern women & rsquo ; s day event are simpli a mean of acknowledg the success of women achiev in a varieti of profess and entrepreneuri activ & ndash ; both social and busi . factori 54 , which special in high - class fashion and carri merchandis with the label of the world & rsquo ; s best - known design , went one better on tuesday , in that the event that it host at it store in the ramat aviv mall wa for the benefit of the next gener . held in conjunct with , and on behalf of , babi for life , an organ that rescu and adopt hungri infant dure the first year of their live , and help singl mother and famili suffer from econom distress , the event featur note broadcast dana weiss and veteran singer rita talk about everyth and anyth . the two celeb repres women & rsquo ; s voic , and among the subject they discuss wa woman & rsquo ; s voic dure the present war . the occas also gave peopl who like to mingl with celeb the opportun to do so . there were quit a few celeb on hand , in addit to the two who were conduct the convers . exchang view on implic of genocid case ■ israel & rsquo ; s immedi past attorney - gener , mandelblit , is current in new york with amit becher , the presid of the israel bar associ , to join uja lawyer in a panel discuss in which they will exchang view on implic of the genocid accus against israel at the intern court of justic and the futur of judici reform in israel . the big question is whether the outcom in either case will affect israel & rsquo ; s diplomat statu . embassi celebr independ day amid war & nbsp ; ■ bear in mind the secur situat , some embassi have cancel their tradit independ day recept , while other have thought up differ way in which to celebr . the hungarian embassi , for instanc , will celebr the anniversari of the 1848 - 49 hungarian revolut and war of independ with an onlin screen of gabor herendi & rsquo ; s blockbust movi kincsem ( my preciou ) , which wa the name of the famou hungarian thoroughbr racehors with the longest undef record in histori , win all of her 54 race . the movi is a period drama love stori set in 19th - centuri hungari . the link to the film and the requir password can be acquir from the hungarian embassi at the email address rsvp . tlv @ mfa . gov . hu / . registr by march 13 is essenti . the link and password will be sent to the email address that would - be viewer have indic , just befor the start of the screen , which is schedul for 5 p . m . on thursday , march 14 . when regist pleas state how mani viewer there will be . follow the screen the movi will be avail for an addit 24 hour to peopl who had other commit on the abov mention date to see it . estonia set the trend ■ it wa publish recent in thi column that the estonian embassi want to celebr it independ day with both fun and good deed . estonian ambassador veikko kala may have start a trend among some of hi colleagu . the idea wa that all the guest would congreg at the cook studio in tel aviv , and under the supervis of profession chef would prepar kosher meal for evacue , therebi ad to israel & rsquo ; s nation resili . mani of the invite love the idea , and some 120 show up & ndash ; approxim half of them diplomat and half isra , as well as friend who were neither diplomat nor isra . altogeth , there were more than the embassi expect . each particip receiv the gift of an estonian apron with the embassi logo and the slogan & ldquo ; estonia cook with you . & rdquo ; dure approxim one and a half hour , they prepar salmon , beef stew , roast chicken , beef patti , and tofu , serv with rice , potato , and green bean . anyon hope for a tast of estonian cuisin wa disappoint , but it wa such a fun even that no one mind the isra fare that wa serv afterward with wine . guest who had minim kitchen experi quickli learn to chop , slice , cook , and pack . gener , when one talk of stir the pot , it mean caus tension , but in thi case gil haskel , chief of state protocol , wa liter stir the pot as he share a work counter with croatian ambassador vesela korac and the deputi head of mission of portug and itali . some 300 meal were prepar , and becaus the date coincid with the second anniversari of the russian invas of ukrain , recipi includ isra evacue and ukrainian refuge who are be shelter in israel for the durat of the war in their homeland . an extra bonu for the guest wa that mani were work side by side with peopl they had not previous known , and were thu abl to make new friend with eas . after all their work , they were reward with a mouthwat supper wash down with excel wine . greerfc @ gmail . com