the idf oper overnight and on saturday morn to hunt down the killer of elhanan klein , which saw soldier from the navi and the shin bet ( israel secur servic ) confront a terror cell and kill five terrorist , the militari report . the cell , which had been under surveil for half a year , wa intercept by isra forc just as they were allegedli plan anoth major terrorist act . the confront erupt late thursday even in a dens popul residenti area where terrorist were use civilian cover to evad captur . the intens firefight , which last more than 12 hour , result in the critic injuri of an elit idf commando . medic team at beilinson hospit in petah tikva are current battl to save hi life . the oper wa led by menash brigad command lt .- col . ayoub kayouf , involv stealth tactic that aim to surpris and quickli apprehend the terrorist with minim civilian involv and collater damag . accord to the report , the idf raid the villag of deir al - ghusun in the tulkarm area , target the terrorist who carri out the attack last novemb near the town of beit lid on highway 557 , where klein , a father of three from enav , wa kill on hi way back from reserv duti . the terrorist also carri out a terror attack on april 7 , 2024 , near the nabi elia junction in the west bank , in which two isra were wound , one of them a femal soldier . the militari said that the four terrorist who were kill were adnan taisir kamal samara , a hama member from tulkarm who had previous been imprison for be involv with the terrorist group ; alaa adib abe aljab sharitakh , anoth hama member who had been imprison for 14 year due to hi involv in terrorist activ ; tamer abe allatif rajeh rajeh , a hama member from the town of shuweika ; and asal bashir taufik badran a palestinian islam jihad member from the town of deir al - ghusun who had also been imprison for be involv in terrorist activ . the militari note that in the past few month , addit collabor had been arrest and had confess to be involv in the attack , fund by hama . despit stall in gaza , idf continu west bank oper & nbsp ; the terrorist barricad themselv insid a hous and open fire on the idf soldier , who respond by open fire and use shoulder - fire missil , as well as a remot pilot aircraft , to attack the build . in addit to the five terrorist who were elimin , five want individu were arrest in the nearbi villag of sebastia near nablu . the idf dismantl defens and breach hous in tulkarm , look for a number of terrorist in the area . the standoff conclud when engin unit use heavi machineri to breach the build after prolong exchang of gunfir . despit initi assess that the build & rsquo ; s destruct had neutral the threat , two terrorist emerg from the debri , lead to further confront . one attack attempt to continu the assault but wa neutral by an idf bulldoz oper by the engin corp . avi ashkenazi contribut to thi report . & nbsp ;