hezbollah & rsquo ; s action endang lebanon and can bring the entir region toward unnecessari escal , prime minist yair lapid warn tuesday dure a tour of the idf & rsquo ; s northern command . & ldquo ; the state of israel is prepar and readi to act against ani threat . we are not face a confront , but anyon who tri to harm our sovereignti or the citizen of israel will veri quickli find out that he ha made a seriou mistak , & rdquo ; lapid said . prime minist yair lapid and defens minist benni gantz today tour the northern command and the border with lebanon , held an oper situat assess , and spoke with senior offic in the sector . lapid and gantz were join by the head of the nation secur council eyal haluta , deputi chief of staff maj .- gen . hertzi halevi , head of the northern command maj .- gen . amir baram , and the pm & rsquo ; s militari secretari brig .- gen . shai clapper . & ldquo ; israel is interest in lebanon as a stabl and prosper neighbor that is not a platform for hezbollah & rsquo ; s terror and is not an iranian tool , & rdquo ; lapid said . stress that israel & ldquo ; ha no interest & rdquo ; in an escal , the terror group & rsquo ; s continu hostil action & ldquo ; endang lebanon , it citizen and their well - be , & rdquo ; lapid said . & ldquo ; hezbollah ' s aggress is unaccept and could lead the entir region to an unnecessari escal . '' prime minist yair lapid & ldquo ; hezbollah & rsquo ; s aggress is unaccept and could lead the entir region to an unnecessari escal , especi when lebanon ha a real opportun to develop it energi resourc , & rdquo ; lapid continu . israel , he said , & ldquo ; is act and will continu to act against everi iranian terrorist branch in the region and in gener . iran is the largest export of terror in the world . we will act on our own and in cooper with other countri in the region to prevent iran from undermin region stabil . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; gantz said that jerusalem is keep a close eye on the financi crisi in lebanon and that beirut is & ldquo ; well awar & rdquo ; of what would happen should a war break out between the two side . sinc the devast explos of beirut & rsquo ; s port in the summer of 2020 and the ongo financi crisi , jerusalem ha offer aid to beirut multipl time includ to the lebanes arm forc . the countri & rsquo ; s econom meltdown , one of the world & rsquo ; s worst sinc the 1850 , ha driven an estim four million famili into poverti in the last two year , unabl to afford basic necess like food or medic care . gantz also publicli state that israel ha offer aid four time in the past year . due to the long - stand enmiti between the two side , lebanon wa expect to refus the aid , but there wa no respons despit israel & rsquo ; s follow - up request to quietli provid the aid through a third countri . israel reach out to provid such good to the lebanes peopl , but jerusalem never heard back . & ldquo ; israel is readi to do a lot to make it neighbor prosper and is readi to act all the time to protect it citizen . we are readi in all dimens ; in the air , at sea , on land and in the cyber sphere , & rdquo ; gantz said . but , he ad , & ldquo ; the state of lebanon and it leader are well awar that if they choos the path of fire , they will be harm and sever burn . and if they choos the path of stabil , they will help the citizen of lebanon , & rdquo ; he ad . on monday the idf intercept a drone that wa launch by the group into isra airspac . earlier thi month , the isra navi and air forc intercept three other iranian - made drone that had been launch toward the karish ga rig . lapid , who flew over the rig , said that israel & rsquo ; s ga reserv can contribut to & ldquo ; resolv the global energi crisi . lebanon can also benefit from the develop of it econom water reservoir , through negoti , which must be complet soon , '' & nbsp ; '' the new rig is the energi futur of the state of israel and an econom opportun that includ the export of ga to egypt and europ , from which everi isra citizen will benefit in the not too distant futur , '' ad the prime minist . hezbollah threaten karish ga righezbollah secretari - gener hassan nasrallah ha threaten to use forc to prevent the karish ga rig from produc natur ga , which is expect to start in sever week . israel see the rig as a strateg asset sever kilomet south of the area over which negoti are be conduct , and ha warn that it will defend it . the lebanes govern slam hezbollah for the launch of the drone , which wa done without the govern & rsquo ; s consent . idf vs droneshezbollah is believ to have some 2 , 000 unman aerial vehicl , mani of them advanc uav from iran and other manufactur independ by the lebanes terror group . the israel air forc ha admit that identifi and intercept hostil drone is challeng and consid drone to be one of the top five threat face the countri . the defens establish is also concern about the damag to the iaf & rsquo ; s aerial superior over lebanon due to hezbollah & rsquo ; s long - rang missil and air defens system . beirut demand control over tunnel in israelalso on monday , & nbsp ; hezbollah - alli public work minist ali hamieh said that beirut want control over a tunnel that goe from israel into lebanon built by the british armi that ha been shutter sinc 1948 . the tunnel wa built between 1942 and 1944 for a railway to link egypt and turkey , pass through what wa then the british mandat of palestin , and lebanon . it wa block up with a cement wall when israel left south lebanon . a small segment of the isra section is now part of the rosh hanikra tourist spot . gantz and lapid tour the area on tuesday . & ldquo ; our sovereign right lie in our decis to restor everi inch of the occupi tunnel , besid our decis to restor our land and maritim border too , & rdquo ; said hamieh dure a visit to naqoura where the tunnel enter lebanon . hamieh said that the tunnel is anoth contest area along with the shebaa farm and kfar chouba hill along with the disput maritim border . & ldquo ; we will not give up an inch , & rdquo ; of the land or maritim border , hamieh said , & ldquo ; we also want our right and border in the tunnel until the last squar meter . & rdquo ;