love struck rusalka ( soprano alla vasilevitski ) meet a handsom princ ( tenor alexei dolgov ) in the same - titl opera by czech compos anton & iacut ; n dvor & aacut ; k , now offer at the isra opera . sadli , she is a mermaid and he is a human . when she attempt to touch him , he think she is a wave in a pool . to leav her realm , rusalka trade with the witch woman jezibaba ( mezzo - soprano edna prochnik ) , exchang her voic for leg . will the princ see how much she love him when she is mute , and she will gain a human soul , or will he reject thi pale , sad , silent woman and condemn her to chang again & ndash ; thi time to a murder bog spirit ? delight opera fan for over 100 yearsthi much belov opera , with it mythic and folk aspect , ha delight opera fan sinc it world premier in 1901 . director stefano poda ha adapt it in a visual stun , power manner . more convent adapt & ndash ; like the 1977 czech film by peter weigl , or the 2017 met opera product direct by sir mark elder & ndash ; have charact move on stage from forest pool to palac and back as if in a fairi tale ; poda flood the stage and make it an actual pool . when rusalka & rsquo ; s father , the water spirit vodnik ( bariton ionut pascu ) emerg , he rise from that pool . the element of water is massiv . the nymph lay down and roll around vodnik , unabl to rise sinc , in thi mythic logic , they don & rsquo ; t have feet . pascu is abl to sing beauti , inhabit the role of the griev father who lament the loss of hi daughter to the human realm , and jump to the pool without miss a beat . good opera is hard ; to sing submerg in water is an olympian feat . star in the titl role , vasilevitski offer a wonder perform from start to finish . it wa a delight to watch her interact with prochnik in the role of jezibaba . poda & rsquo ; s vision had the witch walk with a collect of iron item attach to her dark dress . when she tear a dagger and offer it to a distress rusalka , encourag her to murder her princ , we sens that jezibaba is reliv a past trauma of her own . thi is impli by her strong insist that rusalka is motiv onli by desir , and the witch & rsquo ; s taunt that the princ & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; kissi - kiss & rdquo ; were not what the mermaid - turn - human expect . rusalka , who actual want a soul , pretend the witch is wise and all - know to get her to help . one of the few major world opera perform in czech , jezibaba often speak in a diminut form . when she say to rusalka & ldquo ; by the devil you will have feet , & rdquo ; what she is actual say is & ldquo ; by the devil you will have footsi - wussi to walk with . & rdquo ; prochnik & rsquo ; s perform of the aria & ldquo ; curi muri fuk & rdquo ; ( roughli translat as & ldquo ; abracadabra & rdquo ; ) dure the potion - make scene wa outstand . a gargantuan product , some thing were lost due to it grandeur . when jezibaba meet the hunter ( bariton ode reich ) and the kitchen apprentic ( mezzo soprano rona shrira ) , they are meant to be scare of her . it is veri difficult to convinc the audienc they are frighten if they were told to collect plastic bag from the water pool and keep on sing when a scari , evil witch is speak with them . like rusalka , who gave her voic in exchang for a shot at a human soul and true love , thi product trade some of the familiar aspect of thi opera to gift the audienc with a larger - than - life product mani will rememb with deep gratitud for year to come . anton & iacut ; n dvor & aacut ; k & rsquo ; s & lsquo ; rusalka & rsquo ; will perform daili until thursday , march 14 , at 8 p . m . & ndash ; except for one friday perform on march 15 , given at 1 p . m . three hour long , two intermiss . sung in czech with hebrew and english titl . ni 195 - 405 per ticket . call ( 03 ) 692 - 7777 for book . the isra opera , 19 shaul hamelech st . , tel aviv .