maccabi tel aviv captur the israel premier leagu championship over the weekend after defeat hapoel beersheba 3 - 0 . the yellow - and - blue last took home the domest titl in 2019 / 20 , the second year of back - to - back championship . with the titl , maccabi broke a streak of three straight championship by maccabi haifa and will look to begin uefa champion leagu qualif in juli . robbi kean & rsquo ; s squad wa hand an earli gift when beersheba central defend miguel vitor wa issu a red card just 14 second into the game for a tackl on dan bitton , who had a clear path to the goal , to give maccabi a man advantag for the entir contest . dor turgeman open the score as he head in a bitton ball in the 26th minut , while ofir davidzada made it 2 - 0 off a milson assist 10 minut later to head into the break feel comfort . milson continu hi fine play as he pick up hi second helper of the game in the 69th minut when ido shachar found the back of the goal to give the host a 3 - 0 lead and the win . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s been a long season , but it wa worth it in the end , & rdquo ; kean said . & ldquo ; when you have a trophi avail , that & rsquo ; s whi i came here & ndash ; to win . to do it in front of the home fan is veri special . the experi wa about ten year of learn , and i & rsquo ; ve never shi away from a challeng , and i never will . i & rsquo ; m super proud of the guy , as they have put in the effort all of the time . we give them inform , and they have to deliv , and they did . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; mani time we talk about the start of the game and on the right focu that make all the differ , & rdquo ; hapoel beersheba coach elyaniv barda began . & ldquo ; and then the red card wa issu and the game got complic veri quickli . the first goal wa off a set - piec where our defend wasn & rsquo ; t good enough , and the game end veri quickli from there . thi is the 10th game where we had a player sent off , and we have to learn from thi and improv . & rdquo ; acknowledg of maccabi ' s titl & nbsp ; the chairman of the israel footbal associ , mosh shino zuaret , acknowledg maccabi & rsquo ; s titl . & ldquo ; congratul to maccabi tel aviv for an excit championship win , a second titl in a success season . congratul to owner mitch goldhar , who deserv compliment for the impress manag of the club , the commit profession staff , the excel player , and abov all , the huge and support crowd . all of these led to the result in the domest competit , in addit to a particularli success european campaign . know the owner and the club , i am sure that you will strive to rais the bar next season as well . i onli wish the joy of thi accomplish would be at the highest of level should the circumst in the nation be much better . & rdquo ; the chairman of the israel profession footbal leagu , erez halfon , ad : & ldquo ; congratul to maccabi tel aviv for win the state championship . congratul to owner mitch goldhar , coach robbi kean , and hi team , player , and fan for a sweet end to a long season full of achiev in israel and europ . & ldquo ; you went through one of the most difficult and complex season that isra footbal ha known due to the war , and you manag to excel in the moment of truth time after time . you have shown dedic , talent , and commit to the goal on the part of all the club member , and you can feel pride in yourselv . win the championship is alway a high point for ani team , and thi achiev must be even more excit for the fan and everyon around the club . & rdquo ; in the galile , maccabi haifa defeat bnei sakhnin 2 - 1 after mount a late comeback to take the victori . after a scoreless first half , alexandru paun gave the host a 1 - 0 lead via the penalti spot in the 57th minut . but 20 minut later , muham abu nil wa issu a red card which allow the green to draw even at 1 - 1 on a dean david spot kick . as the match head into second - half injuri time , frantzdi pierrot head home a pierr cornud ball to give messay dego & rsquo ; s squad the victori . & ldquo ; thi wa an import win for us , & rdquo ; dego said follow the game . & ldquo ; i want to congratul maccabi tel aviv on win the championship , it wa a good fight . i told the guy befor the game that we have to play as best as we can , titl or no titl on the line . everi player who put on a maccabi haifa must give 200 % effort and we have two more import game & ndash ; at beersheba and a haifa derbi . & rdquo ; meanwhil , hapoel tel aviv slip by hapoel hadera 1 - 0 on a 35th - minut goal by sagi geni as the red end their season on a high note befor head down to compet in the leumit leagu after have been releg follow last week & rsquo ; s loss . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s a tough feel to stand here in front of our fan due to the situat of be releg , & rdquo ; interim head coach saleem tuama said . & ldquo ; the fan cheer us on all season long and even now know we went down a leagu . but that & rsquo ; s hapoel tel aviv , where the support are alway with us . now we have to look ahead and continu on . & rdquo ; also , ashdod sc sunk hapoel jerusalem 3 - 1 to take the win and the point as the port citi side head into the offseason . after a goalless first half , amit glazer wa issu a red card in the 48th minut , which gave the host a man up for almost the entir second half as stav nachmani immedi took advantag of the situat to give ashdod a 1 & ndash ; 0 lead . matan hozez found the equal for jerusalem in the 75th minut , but three minut later elad shahaf gave eli levi & rsquo ; s team the lead for good while ilay tamam ad the insur marker soon thereaft to take the victori . & ldquo ; thi sum up an excel releg playoff for us , & rdquo ; levi began . & ldquo ; we took it game by game and after each one we came closer and closer as a team . as a countri we have had a tough time and for us in a citi that wa hit hard sinc octob 7 we have not had the ideal prepar and thing have not been the same . but i have to give credit to everyon here for make sure that thi team would not go down a leagu . & rdquo ; elsewher , hapoel haifa defeat bnei reineh 1 - 0 as guy melam & rsquo ; s first - half goal stood up for the carmel red to take the win and the point .