what do ukrain & rsquo ; s presid volodymyr zelenski and israel & rsquo ; s presid isaac herzog have between them ? believ it or not & ndash ; a torah scroll . recent complet in jerusalem the new scroll will be transfer in come month to kyiv & rsquo ; s great synagogu jcc , beit menachem . zelenski wrote the first letter in the scroll , and herzog the last , though one suspect that herzog had a better idea of what he wa do . as the scroll wa written while the countri of both presid had been unlaw attack and were at war , the two presid dedic the torah scroll to peac and uniti . uniti through torah : israel - ukrain connectionth initi for the write of the scroll came from chabad emissari rabbi yonatan markovitch , who is also the chief rabbi of kyiv . markovitch devot much time and energi to strengthen solidar between israel and ukrain . the write of the torah scroll began shortli after the outbreak of the war in ukrain , and in write the first letter , zelenski return to hi jewish root . herzog is not the onli isra to have written a letter in the kyiv torah scroll . among other who have guid the quill are chief rabbi david lau and yitzhak yosef , close rel of abduct isra , famili of isra victim of the war , and famili of soldier who fell in battl in gaza , as well as promin rabbi , jewish soldier in the ukrainian armi , member of the jewish commun in kyiv , and variou influenti jew in israel and the diaspora . the scroll travel wide in the process of it complet . present at the move ceremoni at the presid & rsquo ; s resid in jerusalem where the final letter wa written , wa the beilin famili from sderot , whose mother zina beilin wa among the first victim murder in sderot by hama terrorist on the morn of octob 7 . the beilin famili immigr to israel from ukrain and settl in sderot . zina wa kill moment after leav the home of her elderli mother galina beilin , whom she had visit as soon as the siren sound . the grandson of israel & rsquo ; s first chief rabbi , whose name he bear , herzog said : & ldquo ; throughout thousand of year of exil , wherev they were in the world , the jewish peopl unit around the sefer torah . even today , we are in an especi challeng period , where the jewish peopl and the western world are defend themselv against enemi who oppos the valu of truth and the desir to live in peac and tranquil . therefor , the integr of impact between the jew of israel and the jewish commun in ukrain constitut a power , multipl forc for the surviv and continu of the jewish peopl . there is noth more move than be a part of write a sefer torah that symbol thi special uniti , especi now . & rdquo ; move from one monotheist faith to anoth . herzog on wednesday night host an iftar dinner for close to 140 peopl . thi wa the last offici event for kazakhstan ambassador satybaldi burshakov who is conclud hi servic in israel , and next week will leav to open a kazakhstan embassi in north macedonia . all ambassador attend the presid & rsquo ; s iftar dinner in the past were of the muslim faith , or repres of muslim major countri . not thi time . one of the ambassador present wa us ambassador jack lew , who is jewish , and who had alreadi tweet easter greet to the christian commun . interview by aryeh golan for the launch of the new kan 11 podcast , focu , former presid of the state and former speaker of the knesset reuven rivlin said that under the present circumst , there should be new elect . although golan would have like to have him say someth about prime minist benjamin netanyahu with whom rivlin long ago had a fall out , rivlin refus to discuss netanyahu say mere that some peopl see themselv as begin and some as mose , but that no one is greater or more import than the state itself . rivlin , who is a keen advoc for public radio on which peopl of all stripe and opinion can have their say , also put in a good word for the now - defunct israel broadcast author . if , as war cabinet member benni gantz ha urg , gener elect are held in septemb , chanc are high that a new govern would be form by octob 7 , the first anniversari of the cardin failur of the present govern , and the murder attack by hama . thi year , octob 7 is not on simhat torah , but dure the ten day of penit . whether thi occur to gantz is a matter of specul , but sinc so much of jewish lore and histori are base on symbol , there & rsquo ; s a possibl that it wa import to have a new govern in the jewish new year , replet with all it coincid factor . whether we remain consciou of it or not , the experi of our childhood remain with us forev . sometim they stand in the open gateway of memori , and sometim they are lock deep into the recess of the mind . but they never realli go away . known for hi irrever , best - sell author tuvia tenenbom divid much of hi time between germani and the unit state , is also a journalist and playwright , and founder of the english - speak jewish theater of new york . born in bnei brak to a haredi famili , he certainli know a thing or two about haredim ( ultra - orthodox ) and what make them tick . he recent publish a book on haredim and how they have been malign and misjudg . becaus he hadn & rsquo ; t live amongst them for mani year , while research hi book , he spent the best part of a year live in jerusalem & rsquo ; s mea she & rsquo ; arim where he could observ what wa go on around him and talk to hi neighbor . he came away with veri posit impress , convinc that most peopl who speak in denigr term about haredim have probabl never spent time with them or engag in convers with them . tenenbom may have been more open - mind precis becaus of hi background . on tuesday , april 9 , at 7 . 30 pm he will be the guest of the tel aviv intern salon at soho hous , 27 yefet street , tel aviv - jafo , where he will engag in convers about haredim with fleur hassan - nahoum , the former deputi mayor of jerusalem and israel & rsquo ; s current special envoy for innov . she is also the first woman to be appoint as secretari - gener for kol israel in the zionist congress ; and sit on the intern advisori council of the misgav institut for nation secur and zionist strategi . the event , which is free of charg , is gear to peopl in their 20 and 30 . as space is limit , reserv are essenti : http : // tuviasalon . eventbrit . comfarewel to elem presidental thing eventu come to an end . after 28 year as presid of elem , nava barak step down on of all date & ndash ; april 1 . no , her farewel event wa not an april fool & rsquo ; s day prank and a larg number of lead industrialist and socialit turn out to thank her for her dedic to at - risk and in - distress youth and to wish her well in the futur . among them were former educ minist rabbi shai piron , who is current the elem chairman ; businessman boaz dotan , who wa among the founder of amdoc , former minist for social welfar meir cohen , reuven krupik , the chairman of bank hapoalim , businesswoman liora ofer who chair the melistron group and mani other well - known figur . also present wa a larg conting of youth who have been help by elem and now lead product live . all of the busi peopl present have given substanti financi support to elem over the year , and some quip that it wa imposs to say no to nava barak . in her farewel speech barak said that elem repres a signific chapter in her life & ndash ; one that she regard as a mission ; and one which had given her great satisfact . she wa mental connect and commit to young peopl lack a famili background , she said . for them , elem wa an import anchor & ndash ; a home and a famili . some of those present & ndash ; know that on april 8 , barak will celebr her 77th birthday & ndash ; will probabl get togeth again to rais a toast . with due respect to mickey berkowitz , who thi week wa name an israel prize laureat in the field of sport , he is not the first hoopster to be accord that honor , which in 1979 went to tal brodi whose famou and prophet speech about be on the map and stay on the map follow maccabi tel aviv & rsquo ; s victori against soviet russia & rsquo ; s cska , ha held good for almost half a centuri . but to berkowitz & rsquo ; a credit , he said in interview that he could not have achiev what he did without team - play ; and name sever other star player who had been on maccabi tel aviv team . convent wisdom would dictat that after be vindic for hi year of point out that unwra school textbook are crucibl of hatr against israel that independ journalist david bedein would be acknowledg and reward . instead , he ha been evict from the offic that he ha occupi for 37 year at beit agron which is own by the jerusalem associ of journalist . bedein admit that he wa sometim tardi in pay the rent , but in the final analysi , he alway paid . as far as he is awar , the new occup are part of an ultra - orthodox organ .