the zimin institut ha been at the forefront of scientif philanthropi for over six year , support research at univers worldwid , includ tel aviv univers ( tau ) . it mission is to har contemporari scientif insight to address human & rsquo ; s challeng , bridg the gap between theori and practicscien applic . an integr part of thi process is the & ldquo ; scope of research , & rdquo ; where onc a year , a scientif committe and an intern committe both work to identifi studi that have the potenti to creat real chang in the world , and for collabor with other research team from around the world . in addit , the institut & rsquo ; s biannual intern confer bring togeth lead academ , profession , and investor from around the world to creat scientif partnership and develop breakthrough discoveri . head by prof . david mendlov , the zimin institut at tau is among the pioneer & ldquo ; zimin institut for a better world , & rdquo ; establish by the zimin foundat . driven by the vision of the late dr . dimitri zimin , an engin , entrepreneur , and philanthropist , these institut aim to integr engin research with medic and healthcar technolog , align seamlessli with tau & rsquo ; s multidisciplinari etho . the institut take pride in fund numer groundbreak studi , mani of which are alreadi make tangibl impact in the healthcar industri , thu realiz dr . zimin & rsquo ; s vision of foster posit chang . a recent success stori involv zimin & rsquo ; s invest in earli detect technolog for fetal malform and development disord . build on groundbreak research in fetal electrocardiogram ( fecg ) at tau , thi invest ha yield promis result . fecg , the prevail method for detect development differ and fetal distress , is current limit by it relianc on invas techniqu or noisi matern signal . in a breakthrough studi , research dr . dan raviv and dr . shai tejman - yarden propos a novel approach to extract fecg from joint matern - fetal data use deep learn model . their method , person and self - supervis for each patient , demonstr real - time extract of high - qualiti matern and fetal ecg , offer a signific advanc in fetal monitor accuraci . in the studi , research dr . dan raviv from the school of electr engin at tau and dr . shai tejman - yarden from sheba hospit propos a new approach to extract the fecg from the joint matern - fetal data , which come attach to the common ecg sampl from at least two sourc . they then train a deep learn model to separ the two in real - time . becaus thi is a difficult task , the research creat a person and self - supervis network for patient . thi method train individu on the data of each patient ( mother and fetu ) and can extract the matern and fetal ecg in real - time and with high qualiti . base on preliminari result use real - world data , the research demonstr that the hypothesi and solut are applic and feasibl . anoth medic project fund by the zimin institut that is alreadi in it advanc stage is the teng ( triboelectr nanogener ) sensor , which can restor the sens of touch to peopl who have lost thi sens due to injuri , ill , chemotherapi , and more . the sensor is durabl , small , and modular and oper use an independ energi sourc to restor tactil sensit without the need for an extern energi sourc , and can be easili and safe implant under the skin in a varieti of place . today there are million of peopl in the world who have lost their sens of touch , and there is current no approv clinic solut capabl of restor their sensat . through the uniqu support that the zimin institut offer to the team of research , led by prof . ben maoz from the depart of biomed engin at tau , a start - up compani call teng - abl wa establish , and their sensor is current in the clinic trial phase . & nbsp ;