two of israel & rsquo ; s top intern law offici have publish a rare public articl to challeng the intern crimin court prosecut and other who say that israel still illeg occupi gaza . the articl , publish in the journal iyunei mishpat ( legal studi ) recent but be report now for the first time in english , is import both regard address case of alleg isra war crime in ongo fight with hama , as well as regard what humanitarian oblig jerusalem ha to gaza , dure coronaviru and other period . these issu ultim have major long - term implic at the nation secur and diplomat level , includ whether israel & rsquo ; s naval blockad and other period closur of gaza are legal . just as import are the author : deputi attorney - gener ( intern law ) roy schondorf and idf intern law divis chief col . eran shamir - borer , two offici who have led much of israel & rsquo ; s handl of icc issu and humanitarian dilemma with gaza . schondorf rare write publicli or appear in public with the except of specif confer or at the knesset , and shamir - borer appear even less often . it seem that the impetu for their articl wa to address prior statement by icc prosecutor fatou bensouda as well as a current articl by promin isra prof . eyal gross in the same journal , declar that israel still legal occupi gaza , despit have withdrawn in 2005 . if bensouda , gross and a number of isra critic in un and intern bodi are correct that israel occupi gaza , it could mean that the jewish state might be restrict in what categori of forc it could use to combat hama attack , let alon protest or riot on the border . further , it could mean that ani humanitarian crisi in gaza put israel at fault . when there are debat about isra blockad to prevent rocket and other weapon smuggl , these legal question could have a decis impact . essenti , bensouda , gross and much of the intern commun say that it is irrelev that the idf withdrew and that israel withdrew it settlement from within the gaza strip . rather , they argu that un gener assembl decis , intern committe of the red cross ( icrc ) guidanc , a decis by the intern crimin tribun for the former yugoslavia ( icti ) and other point prove that israel can & ldquo ; occupi & rdquo ; gaza as long as it exert function control . to support their argument , they note that israel control gaza & rsquo ; s airspac , maritim border , wherev there is a blockad , and most of it land border . gaza doe have one border cross with egypt . they broaden these argument by say that israel & rsquo ; s abil to control gaza & rsquo ; s interact with the outsid world mean it can also control the econom and humanitarian situat there . in thi light , they say that israel is also oblig to maintain gaza from a humanitarian perspect , whether with special need dure coronaviru time or with suffici medic , food , util and other item dure more normal period . in contrast , schondorf and shamir - bohrer say that there is no basi to reli on the decis of the un gener assembl or other polit bodi to decid intern law . regard the icti decis , they say that critic & rsquo ; understand of the decis is misplac . in the icti case in question , the court wa deal with a situat where a foreign state control an intern group within anoth state in order to impos it will on the other state . in ani event , the isra offici & rsquo ; articl say that the icti decis wa an outlier creat a new doctrin which no one els ha adopt . moreov , the articl say that the idea isra critic are bring to the gaza question are & ldquo ; wish think & rdquo ; or & ldquo ; aspir & rdquo ; to creat a new law which doe not exist . instead , they say that to be consid an & ldquo ; occupi , & rdquo ; a countri can not mere have aspect of function power over a territori . rather , it must have at a minimum & ldquo ; effect control . & rdquo ; thi tradit ha requir boot on the ground and , at the veri least , involv in run the day - to - day affair of the foreign territori and popul . as the articl say , israel ha zero involv in run gaza & rsquo ; s day - to - day affair , which are run by hama . further , the articl cite a legal brief file by germani in the israel - palestinian proceed befor the icc to support it view . all of thi mean that israel ha not occupi gaza sinc 2005 . rather , when israel facilit food , econom and medic aid to gaza , it is on a voluntari humanitarian basi and balanc along with valid secur consider , say the articl . in decemb 2019 , bensouda request that the icc pretrial chamber endors by march her desir to conduct a full crimin probe of israel and hama regard the 2014 gaza war , the 2018 gaza border crisi and the settlement enterpris . the chamber ha still not decid the issu , with the question remain whether it will decid after us presid - elect joe biden take offic or wait for bensouda & rsquo ; s successor to take over in june 2021 .