palestinian prison in isra prison intend to launch a hunger strike start next week in respons to polici push by nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir , the suprem emerg committe for palestinian prison announc on sunday . '' the ignor extremist ben - gvir appear befor us with a new decis that harm our most sacr sanctiti by reduc visit to our famili to onc everi two month , think that we may surrend or tire in the face of hi aggress and arrog , '' said the emerg committe . the committe announc that the prison would launch a hunger strike start on septemb 14 . '' we demand an end to all decis and polici taken in order to restrict us and the condit of our live , as well as the return of all that wa rob of our right dure the past period . '' the committe referenc disagr between ben - gvir and prime minist benjamin netanyahu about the decis concern visit to prison , state `` thi is neither an acknowledg by them of thi right nor an acknowledg of thi achiev , but rather a disput over the time and mechan for take it . '' '' thi aggress requir us , the prison , and our peopl , to stand up to it and prepar for thi real confront with an enemi lurk around us . '' the announc of the hunger strike came after ben - gvir announc on friday that the visit by famili of prison will be limit to onc everi two month instead of onc per month . ben - gvir state that israel prison servic direct dictat that the visit should onli take place onc everi two month and the practic to allow monthli visit goe against those direct . '' on my watch , terrorist who murder and harm jew will not receiv extra perk . that ' s what we were elect for and that ' s what we ' ll do , '' said ben - gvir . despit the minist ' s announc , netanyahu ' s offic state that `` report `` about a decis to limit visit to prison were `` fake news . '' '' no decis ha been made and no such decis will be made , until a special discuss on the issu plan by netanyahu for next week with all secur bodi is held , '' said netanyahu ' s offic . zaher jabareen , a member of hama in charg of the terrorist movement ' s martyr , wound , and prison bureau , express support for the plan hunger strike , state `` the open war on the prison through crimin zionist govern decis will not break their will , nor will it affect their moral . the enemi will face lion in the prison who will not accept injustic and will not surrend to the occup & rsquo ; s decis and the withdraw of achiev . they will resist with everyth they have , with their eye on al - aqsa and near freedom . '' '' we support the brave prison , and affirm that our entir peopl stand by their side in the battl for freedom and the expect escal against the occup prison administr after they announc an open hunger strike for the middl of thi month , follow the zionist decis to reduc visit to prison as part of a seri of violat against them . we are confid in the abil of our prison to achiev victori over thi enemi and to forc them to submit to their legitim right and restor their stolen achiev . '' tension continu to escal between hama and israelth tension in isra prison come amid continu concern of an escal between israel and hama in the west bank , gaza strip , and lebanon . egyptian sourc familiar with mediat effort between the palestinian faction and the isra govern told al - arabi al - jade that `` the american administr ha been strongli involv , over the past few day , in contact with sever region parti , led by egypt , to prevent the outbreak of a comprehens confront dure the current period , in light of american - isra fear of an iranian role in that confront , should it break out . & rdquo ; the sourc ad that egypt ha place pressur on israel not to strike hama leader , but ha also inform hama that there are `` seriou `` plan to target the movement ' s leader in lebanon , especi saleh al - arouri , who is respons for much of the movement ' s oper in the west bank . the sourc ad that the us and egypt have been pressur hama and the palestinian islam jihad to stop terrorist attack in the west bank , as there are sign of intent attempt to escal the situat on the lebanes border . the isra defens establish is prepar for the possibl of an escal from the west bank , gaza , and lebanon dure the high holiday period which begin with rosh hashanah on septemb 15 , kan news report on friday .