the movement for qualiti govern in israel ( mqg ) demand in a letter on wednesday a crimin investig into action by former justic minist ayelet shake after record publish by channel 12 on tuesday indic that she agre to appoint a judg after former israel bar associ chair effi naveh pressur her to do so for person benefit . as part of their respect respons , both naveh and shake were member of the judici appoint committe , which is respons for appoint all of israel & rsquo ; s judg . haaretz report chaim levinson publish record last month of convers from 2016 between nave and the judg in question , eitan orenstein , in which orenstein appear to agre to a number of naveh & rsquo ; s demand in exchang for an appoint as presid of the tel aviv district court . orenstein eventu receiv the appoint . in the new record that air on tuesday , shake said in respons to naveh that orenstein had & ldquo ; no chanc & rdquo ; of receiv the promot . howev , she comment to naveh & ldquo ; thi is the most import thing to you in the world , ah ? & rdquo ; and appear to agre to naveh & rsquo ; s demand . naveh is heard explain in the record that hi privat law firm would benefit if orenstein is appoint , sinc orenstein would then have the power to choos favor judg to presid over naveh & rsquo ; s case . mqg said in a statement that accompani it letter , which it address to the attorney - gener , israel polic commission , and the polic & rsquo ; s investig and intellig divis head , that & ldquo ; the convers that were publish yesterday are credibl evid for establish reason suspicion that seriou offens were commit in the field of standard in public life by senior offici in the legal world . & rdquo ; the mqg ad that & ldquo ; in view of the goal of the crimin procedur , it is import to complet the investig procedur effici and quickli , in order to establish the truth and carri out the law with all those involv in the case . & rdquo ; shake said to channel 12 on tuesday in respons to the report that she had been subject to & ldquo ; pressur from differ peopl over the appoint of presid of the tel aviv district court & rdquo ; regard more than one candid , but that the decis in the end to appoint orenstein wa made base on & ldquo ; profession consider onli , & rdquo ; and wa support by then - suprem court chief justic and judici appoint committe member miriam naor . a histori of convict and accusationsnaveh ha a histori of problemat conduct . he wa convict and sentenc to a two - month suspend sentenc in novemb for sneak hi partner past custom agent at ben - gurion airport in 2018 . he had engag in the subterfug becaus he wa in the midst of divorc proceed at the time . the former bar presid wa also accus of promot judici candid in exchang for sexual favor , and resign over the scandal in 2019 . the case wa drop in 2021 , as the deputi state attorney believ the case would lose in court . naveh ran again to lead the israel bar associ in june 2023 but , support by justic minist yariv levin , he lost by a landslid , win just 19 % of the vote . hi defeat wa seen at the time as a sign of opposit to levin & rsquo ; s judici reform . mike starr contribut to thi report