tambour , the largest paint and build materi compani in israel , unveil it new color collect , the balanc collect , which draw inspir from the space around us and express the effect of color in the variou space on our feel . tambour also reveal the find of a survey accord to which 90 % of isra feel posit emot after paint their hous , and it launch an onlin servic of paint sampl that consum can order for their home to help with the decis on choos the color for their hous . on the occas of the launch of the new collect ahead of passov , tambour conduct an in - depth survey that examin the feel isra are experienc after six month of war , whether isra spend more time at home compar to the period befor the war , what action they are do more to relax and to take a break from the situat , how the secur situat affect their consumpt habit and how mani of them intend to paint the hous for the holiday . the wisdom of balanc `` we live in an era of far - reach chang that are happen at a dizzi pace . some of them encourag us to move forward even more strongli , and some of them invit us to stop and rethink the way we live and the space where we spend our time . we want these space to transform our qualiti of life , for good & ndash ; have them give express to the natur that surround us , plant , tree , soil , air , and water , and may they allow us to rest and recharg with renew strength and inspir us , '' say niva yehiav alon , head of design at tambour . tambour ' s balanc collect combin the benefici properti and inspir we draw from natur and our immedi environ , and the psycholog of color and it abil to influenc the mood and gener feel in the space where we are . the collect present 5 group of shade , each of which ha a differ effect on our feel : start with feel of calm and peac , through feel of renew , relax , and stabil , and up to a feel of enchant , which make our heart skip a beat . tambour chose to describ the stori of each shade group in the titl and keyword and let the color convey the feel . calm : freedom | boundless space | quiet releas | infinityrelax : walk barefoot and feel the ground under your feet | a place of refug | mother earth | a place for comfort | tendernessst : certainti | a sens of belong | stabl ground | connect to the root | depth | meaningregener : regener | refresh | to be recharg | to grow | to reach new height . excit : to feel your breath taken away in front of a spectacular sunset | admir a full moon | to hear the whistl of the wind in the heart of the desert