maccabi tel aviv end a turbul season in the best possibl way thi week as it wrap up the franchis & rsquo ; s 57th championship after defeat hapoel tel aviv 2 - 1 in what will go down as back - to - back titl for the yellow - and - blue over it citi rival . in what wa a heat seri , both on and off the court , that unfortun saw a tremend amount of fan violenc in the shadow of the war against hama , maccabi & rsquo ; s coach , ode katash , wa abl to steer hi ship to the promis land . as the campaign came to an end and maccabi hoist the championship plate in front of it home crowd , katash spent some time follow the game to take a look back at the entir year and the challeng that he will need to deal with in the upcom day , week and month . the countri & rsquo ; s winningest franchis began the 2023 / 24 campaign way back in august , when the major of the prior year & rsquo ; s roster of player return to the countri to start train camp with an air of optim that thi would be a histor and unforgett year . with a return core of star veteran , includ wade baldwin and lorenzo brown as well as bud forward bonzi colson and roman sorkin , to go along with newcom jasiel rivero and tamir blatt , maccabi wa set to be the talk of the town and challeng for the euroleagu crown . maccabi look superb in it open euroleagu game against partizan belgrad at yad eliyahu on thursday , octob 5 as hope were veri high that the club would onc again reach the top of the continent basketbal world . howev , that wa befor octob 7 occur , and hama & rsquo ; s attack on the jewish state set off a chain of effect that turn the former realiti upsid down . the yellow - and - blue had to pivot quickli as the import player and their famili were flown out of the countri , and after a veri short break belgrad becam the club & rsquo ; s new temporari home . & ldquo ; it wa a difficult year , regardless of basketbal , & rdquo ; katash began . & ldquo ; we are citizen of the countri and it ha been quit an experi that we are go through . thi one season felt like three or four year and in addit to what happen with my good friend and coach lior lubin who pass away , it wa intens and veri complex . everi day there wa someth that happen and perhap my charact is sometim a disadvantag in these situat , but mayb it wa an advantag . & rdquo ; in addit to hi own mental make - up , katash referenc hi player & rsquo ; strength . & ldquo ; if we didn & rsquo ; t have continu in the roster from last year , we wouldn & rsquo ; t have been abl to surviv thi entir situat . we had a tough schedul but we were abl to do it with the charact of the player and build upon what we had start last season . & rdquo ; the prevail thought wa that maccabi would fall apart without it home crowd to cheer it on and a success euroleagu campaign wa at that point too lofti an expect . but that wa not the case as the player and staff pull it togeth and end up in seventh place with an impress 20 - 14 record , earn it a place in the play - in . after easili dispos of baskonia , panathinaiko wa up next for maccabi as it took the eventu euroleagu champ to five game befor fall in athen . local victoryloc , the yellow - and - blue won game after game in the domest leagu throughout the winter month but end up fall in the state cup final to hapoel jerusalem in a game that took place just day after the club & rsquo ; s continent campaign came to an end . & ldquo ; when you win a titl it & rsquo ; s alway great , but thi season wa extra special after everyth we had experienc . after we end europ we were realli done and we had so mani injuri and situat that we paid a price for , whether it wa the war or person issu of the player as well . after we lost the cup , the player realli didn & rsquo ; t want to finish thi season that way . in some way , everyth went against us but we also have to look at thing in proport as there are still hostag in gaza . & rdquo ; katash & rsquo ; s charg pull it all togeth in their leagu quarterfin seri against ness ziona , which result in a sweep that wa follow up by anoth walkov versu jerusalem , which wa without injur star levi randolph ( now rumor to be come to maccabi ) . hapoel tel aviv look to aveng last year & rsquo ; s final seri loss , but onc again the red came up short and maccabi captur yet anoth titl . while the yellow - and - blue can bask in championship glori , the celebr will be short live as it will need to start rebuild the roster for the 24 / 25 season that is right around the corner and there will be plenti of chang come , from both import to isra . baldwin and brown swiftli declar that they will be leav the team due to the war , with their announc come as they were still on the floor celebr . josh nebo & rsquo ; s contract is up and he will be depart while bonzi colson is still undecid as to where he will suit up next season . baldwin , brown and colson all have contract for the 24 / 25 campaign with maccabi , but the club will not stand in their way should they want to leav . katash of cours would love for them to all stay but the realiti is that they will be head to other team . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s sad to lose them and break up the team and it & rsquo ; s realli sad actual . but what ha occur here thi season in the countri , it & rsquo ; s part of the price that we have to pay . what happen on octob 7 is the biggest incid that i & rsquo ; ve wit in my lifetim and we have to take thing into proport . & rdquo ; rivero should be back , and the same may be true of antoniu cleveland , howevervjam webb will like be look for a new home next season . as for the isra conting , rafi menco is a free agent but should return , josh dibartoloemo and jake cohen are under contract and should be back play at yad eliyahu next season , while tamir blatt is opt out of hi current contract but will most like re - sign with the team at a higher rate . the one big question is the leagu and final mvp , sorkin . the big man is rumor to be head to north america to tri out for nba team after a stellar season , but there is also talk that maccabi will make him an offer that he can & rsquo ; t refus and he will stay yellow - and - blue for the forese futur . & ldquo ; roman won everi award thi season , & rdquo ; katash said . & ldquo ; i have the privileg of coach him . he can realli do it all and ha a huge upsid and is one of the most talent player . he & rsquo ; s a great person as well and i & rsquo ; m veri proud as to how he came into the playoff . he wa play well in the euroleagu , but then got hurt and it just took time to get him back up to speed . he need to be a maccabi tel aviv player for the rest of hi career . & rdquo ; there are plenti of name that have been link to maccabi and while the euroleagu home game will most probabl be play onc again in belgrad , the club still remain a veri attract option for some player , explain the bench boss . & ldquo ; next season won & rsquo ; t be easi and it wa a challeng thi year just in term of schedul . but maccabi is a big club and ha a system in place and while it won & rsquo ; t be easi to keep player and sign player , we are there . & ldquo ; we know we will lose some player but there are plenti of player who see maccabi as an opportun . maccabi is a good place to play and a place where player can advanc their career . & rdquo ; it seem that the yellow - and - blue is do exactli that , find player who want to come play for maccabi that have experienc israel . those may includ hapoel jerusalem & rsquo ; s randolph , hapoel holon big man justin smith along with hapoel tel aviv & rsquo ; s center jaylen hoard , to name a few . the upcom campaign will be complex and challeng without a doubt , but the most import thing for maccabi will be to be abl to adapt on the fli and adjust as it did thi season . & ldquo ; there are a lot of question mark . in thi chaotic realiti , it is imposs to know what the day will bring . thing chang all the time , we have to adjust ourselv & ndash ; becaus we are head into a difficult year . & rdquo ;