the beersheba district court on tuesday sentenc isra ary schiff to nine month of commun servic for shoot and kill an isra - arab that broke into hi car last novemb , walla report . schiff wa sentenc in a plea bargain over hi role in kill mohammad al - atrash , who the defend claim had been tri to steal hi car and that he therefor act in self - defens . the plea bargain and sentenc follow hi convict in juli , where the court reject hi claim of self - defens . in fact , the prosecut said secur - camera footag of the incid show that schiff wa in no danger and wa not even in hi car when the car thiev arriv . the prosecut had origin sought a sentenc of 4 - 6 year in prison , but the plea deal avert that , walla report . dozen had come out to the courtroom to support schiff , includ religi zionist mk itamar ben - gvir . & nbsp ; '' aryeh schiff should receiv a medal , not be prosecut & ndash ; and certainli not receiv a sentenc of commun servic or prison , '' ben - gvir said in respons to the verdict . '' the rule send a messag to the resid of the south that they must not defend themselv , or els they will face charg and imprison . the huge gap between the sentenc and the long prison sentenc the prosecut demand show the racist treatment shown to jew forc to defend themselv . '' also come out against the verdict & ndash ; say that it wa too lenient & ndash ; wa meretz mk mossi raz . '' the sentenc given to aryeh schiff is an embarrass , '' raz said in a statement . & nbsp ; '' it ' s import for everyon to feel safe in their own home , but we must never allow it to becom normal that citizen can take the live of other into their hand . i can ' t help but think that if schiff wa an arab , hi punish would have been far more sever . '' but other welcom the verdict . '' after mani long month of public struggl , we are glad public pressur succed , '' the right - wing ngo im tirtzu said in a statement . '' there wa no need at all to convict aryeh , but at least the judg understand well that a veri clear messag must be convey that a citizen is allow to defend himself against crimin . it will take a long time to restor the negev ' s secur , but at least aryeh schiff can have hi life back . '' clash soon erupt outsid the courtroom between schiff ' s support and local bedouin resid , notabl when ben - gvir arriv . as the mk came to the court , the bedouin resid began shout at him , call him a racist . & nbsp ; ben - gvir repli that `` we came to support and say that aryeh schiff is the hero of israel , and it is time to bring order to the south , '' ad that , `` if the polic had been a deterr in the south , schiff would not have had to shoot the burglar . '' other member of the isra right have voic their support of schiff in the past . & ldquo ; the indict against you should not have been file , and have been file , it should be withdrawn , & rdquo ; then - public secur minist amir ohana told schiff in march . & ldquo ; as usual , and despit convent think , the problem is not the law or the word of the law , '' he said . `` the problem is those interpret the law . they are give the law a restrict interpret until it is effect negat , '' which is gener how the issu of self - defens is treat . `` they give themselv the power to fill up or empti the substanc of a law . & rdquo ; yonah jeremi bob contribut to thi report .