friday , may 14 , 1948 . the final hour of the british mandat in palestin tick away . the mandat wa set to expir at midnight . david ben - gurion gave order for the ceremoni to mark the birth of the jewish state . he decid to make the histor declar just befor shabbat came in . in the fever atmospher of the time , ben - gurion ’ s overrid concern wa secur . if the locat of the ceremoni becam public knowledg , a singl terrorist bomb could wipe out the entir embryon govern of the new state , togeth with most of it notabl . so it wa not until the middl of that friday morn that offici began telephon the 200 peopl who had been select to attend the ceremoni . onli then were they told that it wa to take place in tel aviv ’ s municip museum on rothschild boulevard , at exactli 4 p . m . anoth 50 or so peopl also receiv a call that morn , instruct them to be present – the member of what wa then known as the palestin philharmon orchestra , compris of jewish musician – for by 1948 the nation orchestra had becom so identifi with the jewish peopl that an occas of such histor signific wa unthink without their presenc . on may 15 , 1948 , the orchestra becam the israel philharmon orchestra ( ipo ) , and it relationship with the peopl of israel ha a deserv place in the reflect about nationhood , ident , and independ that mark independ day . as the nation council and the guest made their way to the ground floor area , the orchestra assembl in the museum ’ s upper galleri . at exactli 4 p . m . , ben - gurion rap hi gavel . thi wa the prearrang signal for the orchestra to strike up “ hatikvah . ” unfortun , someon miss the cue , and from abov came onli silenc . never one to lack initi , ben - gurion promptli launch hi uncertain voic into the anthem ; rather raggedli , the other member of the peopl ’ s council join in . but someon in the hall did respond to that gavel – a young radio engin , ralf helling , who had been run the underground radio station of the hagana , the clandestin jewish self - defens forc . tip off by american journalist about what wa to take place , helling had arriv at the tel aviv museum that afternoon cart two of hi cumbersom 78 rpm record machin . after proclaim the new state , ben - gurion invit the member of the peopl ’ s council , one by one , to sign the document . as the last one put hi name on the scroll , to thunder applaus , the orchestra final made it presenc known , and brought the proceed to a close with “ hatikvah . ” the audio record of the event of that histor friday afternoon have been preserv in the archiv of the israel public broadcast corpor , which today oper under the brand name kan . when the musician assembl at the municip museum that friday afternoon , they did so as the palestin philharmon orchestra . by the time they play “ hatikvah ” they had becom the israel philharmon orchestra ( ipo ) . give or take a few month , the orchestra itself wa 12 year old by that time . how had it come into exist ? in the earli 1930 , germani ’ s increasingli harsh race law rous the emin violinist , bronislaw huberman , to a furi . in articl and letter to the newspap , he berat german intellectu for fail to make a stand for freedom of cultur express ; and tri to mobil world opinion against the nazi ’ persecut of jewish writer , artist , and musician . final , huberman decid to do someth practic to help those of hi own profess who were be deni the right to perform insid the third reich . he began to persuad first - rank jewish musician to emigr to the land of israel , known then as palestin . against all the odd , he succeed in set up a viabl orchestra , larg compris of immigr musician . even more remark , huberman wa abl to persuad arturo toscanini , possibl the most emin conductor in the world at that time , to conduct the open concert of the orchestra . “ i am do thi for human , ” the maestro declar . the unfinish by franz schubert ( 1797 - 1828 ) wa one of the two major work includ in that first public perform by the orchestra on decemb 26 , 1936 . present were the british high commission lord peel , vera and chaim weizmann , paula and david ben - gurion , and a vast audienc , which includ signora toscanini . the first year were not easi . not onli had the 75 player brought a wide divers of style with them , but the divers of languag ad further difficulti . despit the problem , they quickli coalesc into an orchestra that renown conductor were happi to lead , among other bernardino molinari ( 1880 - 1952 ) , william steinberg ( 1889 - 1978 ) , and even britain ’ s distinguish malcolm sargent ( 1895 - 1967 ) . the version of “ hatikvah ” current use by the orchestra is base on the orchestr by sargent in those earli day . while recogn remark earli as a first - class orchestra , the israel philharmon is today world - class . thi transform wa due to two tower figur in it histori – fame conductor leonard bernstein and zubin mehta . the first a jew , the latter a gentil , these two men share equal credit for forg the uniqu symbiosi between the orchestra and the peopl of israel that is the outstand characterist of the ipo . no other top - flight orchestra in the world is so close identifi with it constitu as the israel philharmon . citi orchestra in the unit state , the unit kingdom , europ ; nation orchestra in the netherland , switzerland , and elsewher , none are woven , as the ipo is , into the veri fabric of their audienc ’ s live . where the isra peopl have gone , there ha been the orchestra , give music express to the great event in the nation ’ s stori . bernstein arriv in israel in octob 1948 to open the first orchestr season in the state of israel . the season includ six special concert for servic men and women – the most spectacular in the town of beersheba just captur from egyptian troop . brave bad road , sand and dust , the orchestra travel from tel aviv with their own piano and play their concert on a makeshift stage befor a thousand - strong audienc of troop . that novemb , bernstein broadcast from israel to the unit state . “ last week , ” he said , “ we gave a concert in jerusalem for soldier onli . imagin 2 , 000 soldier simultan given leav one morn in a citi under sieg ! “ imagin them crowd into the edison theatr , fill everi nook , suspend liter from the roof , curl up on window sash , pack into the aisl and staircas – all to hear a brahm symphoni . “ and at the end , the shout and scream wa an almost unbear tribut . ye , the orchestra is the lifeblood of isra cultur , and i am dedic to the task of see it flourish . ” that wa a commit bernstein honor to the full , in the year that follow . an unforgett concert dure the six day wartoward the end of may 1967 , with israel ’ s arab neighbor mobil on her border , the distinguish foreign conductor , who had been engag for the summer concert seri , took fright and hurriedli depart . in the middl of the six day of fight that began on june 5 , mehta arriv from europ in a plane otherwis fill with ammunit , join daniel barenboim and jacquelin du pré who were alreadi perform with the orchestra . close on their heel came sir john barbirolli and bernstein . in juli , with jerusalem onc again unit , an unforgett concert wa stage in the amphitheat on mount scopu . in the warm summer afternoon , befor a pack audienc that includ then - prime minist levi eshkol and former prime minist ben - gurion , bernstein conduct a perform of mahler ’ s resurrect symphoni that live in the memori of those present as an almost unbear move experi . by thi time , mehta ’ s connect with the ipo wa strong , forg in hi first season with the orchestra in 1961 . “ when i came on to the stage for the second rehears , ” he onc recal , “ the player applaud . ” how a musician from india , come to thi group of jewish musician assembl from around the world , manag to ignit so extraordinari and last a chemistri is someth of a mysteri . mehta himself sometim ascrib it to the fact that he wa a member of the persian “ parsi ” minor in hi own countri , although , he alway add : “ the parsi have never experienc racism like the jew . ” in the headi day that follow the six day war – day that saw the marriag of barenboim and du pré in jerusalem – mehta altern with bernstein in conduct the ipo in a seri of victori concert . the open of the 1968 - 69 season coincid with the announc of mehta ’ s appoint as music director of the ipo , an appoint extend for life in 1981 . “ i will stay for as long as the player want me , ” declar maestro mehta , in accept the honor . it wa under hi directorship that the ipo achiev acknowledg world - class statu . he meld the rich string sound that come so natur to european musician with the special qualiti of brass and woodwind that flourish in the unit state . mehta provid the inspir leadership that unit a bodi of musician into a music instrument that is greater than it part . abov all , he cherish and foster the uniqu relationship that ha exist from the first between the orchestra and the peopl of israel . under the indian mehta ’ s baton , the ipo wa transform into the music express of the isra nation ’ s veri ident . 