the idf publish a map split the gaza strip into small alert zone which it will use to provid safeti instruct to palestinian civilian in the strip on friday as part of continu effort to protect non - combat use by hama as human shield . # عاجل تمهيد ً ا للمراحل المقبلة من الحرب ينشر جيش الدفاع خريطة مناطق الاخلاء ( `` البلوكات `` ) في قطاع غزة : تقسيم أرض القطاع على مناطق حسب التقسيم على الأحياء المعروفة من أجل السماح لسكان غزة بالتوجه وفهم التعليمات والانتقال من أماكن معي ّ نة في حال طلب منهم القيام بذلك حفاظ ً ا على & hellip ; pic . twitter . com / hsziuyru2v & mdash ; افيخاي ادرعي ( @ avichayadrae ) decemb 1 , 2023 `` the terrorist organ hama use the resid of the gaza strip as a human shield , place headquart and militari infrastructur in residenti area , hospit , mosqu , and school , and turn civilian site into militari target by use civilian and civilian facil as human shield , '' said the idf . '' sinc the begin of the war , the idf ha taken variou measur to avoid harm civilian live . among other thing , the idf send messag and leaflet to the resid of gaza instruct them to evacu specif area that are a target for terrorist activ , and direct them to evacu in relev direct . '' the new , interact map divid gaza into number section base on recogniz neighborhood to allow the idf to issu more specif instruct to civilian , includ evacu order , if requir , from onli specif place instead of from broader area . the map wa publish on a special page in arab and accompani by a special video by the idf spokesperson for arab media , avichay adrae . a qr code lead to the site wa also provid on leaflet drop in gaza on friday . the public of the map came shortli after the ceasefir between israel and hama end on friday morn , as hama fire rocket into southern israel and the idf respond by resum airstrik in gaza . accord to palestinian report , the idf drop leaflet over southern gaza on friday warn resid of sever neighborhood in khan yuni to evacu to shelter area in rafah , warn `` the citi of khan yuni is a danger combat zone . '' ' the resid of the gaza strip are not our enemi ' '' the idf work strongli against the terrorist organ and make great effort to distinguish between the civilian and the terrorist . the resid of the gaza strip are not our enemi , '' said adrae in the video . `` becaus of thi , the idf conduct a control and precis evacu of the gazan popul with the aim of remov them as much as possibl from the war zone . '' '' resid of gaza ! obey the evacu instruct is the safest way to protect your safeti , your life , and the live of your famili , '' ad adrae . `` i urg you to look deeper into the map , identifi your area of resid , the number of the relev area , and evacu your area of resid in accord with the instruct if you receiv an offici direct from the idf to do so . ''