there ha been a sharp rise in misinform in report about israel in the intern media , accord to adam levick , director of the public diplomaci ( hasbara ) organ camera ( committe for accuraci in middl east report and analysi ) . '' late , we have seen a sharp rise in misinform and bias report against israel , '' levick told maariv , the jerusalem post ' s sister public . & nbsp ; '' journal is import , but journalist know that they need to stick to the fact , so they have to be care how they report , '' note levick . `` when it come to the bbc , for exampl , for the past 12 year , they have been publish articl against israel , and bbc arab ha even celebr hama ' s action against us . '' & nbsp ; he also note that the british newspap the guardian is also bias against israel . & nbsp ; '' time after time , they write as if we are the bad guy . '' where doe the misinform come from ? accord to him , some of the report come from a lack of knowledg or misunderstand of the fact , caus by , among other thing , certain op - ed be publish in israel . levick cite the exampl of an articl publish in the guardian compar gaza to an concentr camp . he explain that when the newspap wa contact about the articl , it wa said that `` the inform written in the articl wa publish in an opinion column a few year ago in haaretz by a senior report . '' '' we must be care about how thing are present in the media , '' he note . & nbsp ; on the issu of whether to throw al jazeera report out of israel , he said : `` i believ in freedom of the press , ye there is a preced for throw the press out of the countri , but i don ' t think it ' s good . we must put their word in the context of hasbara and continu to show that they are wrong . '' christina jone , a non - jewish woman who work for camera as a campu manag , said : `` my famili ha a deep connect with israel , one of my brother ' s friend wa kill at the supernova music festiv and the imag and stori from the massacr are shock . `` & nbsp ; accord to her , she ha never seen such antisemit in univers as she is right now . '' what we see right now on campus in the us , we may soon also see in the uk and in other part of the world . student are afraid , '' she say , ad that even in scotland , where she live , there are seriou problem . '' it is import to understand that we need to work togeth so that the intern media report object , '' levick said . & nbsp ; '' i call on the report of the world : report object and check your fact befor publish . thi is import for isra public diplomaci . it is import to show that israel is not the enemi . ''