not long ago , walter bingham celebr hi 100th birthday , but as he phrase it , he ha enter hi 101st year of life . i first met walter in jerusalem when i wa work at a radio station , where he wa featur on it aliyah show . a long - time experienc broadcast , he wa subsequ offer hi own show , walter & rsquo ; s world . i wa the sound engin and frequent join walter for live broadcast and to cover news event . walter quickli adapt to the new , ever - chang technolog , and hi hand - held digit record and microphon becam hi constant companion . we went backstag to interview perform at music festiv , and politician at ralli . with hi outgo person and relax style , walter wa alway abl to get guest to open up . today , he record and edit two program cover current event , as well as human interest stori : walter & rsquo ; s world on israel nation radio ; and the walter bingham file on israel new talk radio . despit hi age , he often join the intern media to cover event at danger locat . walter also spend time commemor the memori of the holocaust through frequent speak engag . last may , he spent a week in the berlin area talk to schoolchildren about hi youth in germani and the rise of nazism . in octob , he wa host by the march of the live organ , which promot holocaust educ , for a special reenact of the kindertransport , which save up to 10 , 000 children from the nazi . he travel with one of three other kinder from israel to sever locat in germani , and then to holland and england , reenact their journey in 1939 . that wa how walter surviv the war ; he wa sent to england on the kindertransport , where he grew up without hi parent . throughout the journey , they were interview and film for a documentari , which captur touch moment . when the ferri left the port of hoek van holland , emot well up as walter rememb wave goodby to europ and await freedom in england , as he did 84 year ago . i had the opportun to interview walter about the experi for my podcast , jewish histori moment . kindertransport refuge walter bingham return to germani by ben breskywalt bingham describ the kindertransport reenact , modern german attitud to jew post - holocaust and hi travel to europ dure the israel - gaza war . kindertransport refuge walter bingham return to germani by ben breskywalt bingham describ the kindertransport reenact , modern german attitud to jew post - holocaust and hi travel to europ dure the israel - gaza war . read on substackgerman then vs todaywalt explain that he had previous return to germani in 1988 , but the attitud were differ . & ldquo ; i wa invit by the municip , who were veri nice , but the popul didn & rsquo ; t seem to care about us . nobodi smile , nobodi wave , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; thi time it wa differ . we were approach by local in germani . you couldn & rsquo ; t miss us becaus we had two cameramen , a sound man , and light . the german were friendli , interest , and veri happi to see us . the atmospher wa so much differ . & rdquo ; walter & rsquo ; s trip to germani coincid with the oct . 7 attack in israel , and he comment on how the presid of germani travel to israel in a display of support . walter explain that 1988 wa too soon after world war ii . & ldquo ; that gener were the children and grandchildren of those who vote for hitler . they were still indoctrin , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; it take sever gener to take the poison out of their system , although there is still an element of neo - nazi in germani . & rdquo ; in februari 2024 , march of the live host walter to again speak in london for three major event . thi month , he went to the auschwitz - birkenau memori in poland with march of the live for holocaust remembr day , where he recit kaddish at the end of the commemor . the nazi daggerwhen walter speak about hi wartim experi to group , he ha a visual present with pictur , photo , and chart that explain antisemit and the nazi era . among the item he pass around to the audienc is an authent hitler youth dagger with a swastika . the blade is inscrib with the word & ldquo ; blood and honor & rdquo ; in german . & ldquo ; for me it meant jewish blood , & rdquo ; walter explain , & ldquo ; becaus after school , i saw my fellow pupil march in hitler youth uniform sing & lsquo ; when jewish blood spurt from the knife , everyth goe much better . & rsquo ; & rdquo ; british armyaft arriv in england with the kindertransport , he spent sever year on a religi kibbutz train camp in wale . walter then went to london and join the british armi . in june 1944 , he land on the beach of normandi . for hi extraordinari action , he wa award the militari medal for braveri in the field by king georg vi . he also receiv franc & rsquo ; s highest honor , the l & eacut ; gion d & rsquo ; honneur . as a fluent german speaker , he wa eventu transfer to london to train as a document specialist and counter - intellig oper . on ve day ( may 8 , 1945 ) , he wa sent to hamburg , where he wa given an offic in the former nazi parti headquart of the greater hamburg area . among the numer interview he conduct wa one with nazi foreign minist joachim von ribbentrop , who deni all knowledg of the holocaust , although he oversaw all anti - jewish activ in nazi - occupi europ . he wa the first of the senior nazi leader to be execut after the nuremberg war crime trial . after the war , walter made a life for himself in england . follow hi ba , he obtain a post - graduat degre in polit philosophi from the univers of london . that help him to take up a career in radio journal . model careerto supplement hi incom , walter grew a beard and wa in demand as an actor and advertis model . he wa santa clau at herrod , england & rsquo ; s premier depart store , and for sever year in london & rsquo ; s selfridg depart store . in documentari , he play charl darwin , as well as other interest part . advertis with hi photo could be seen in poster on london buse and underground station . i wa even film with walter . a jerusalem - base musician wa shoot a music video for purim and ask for volunt . when walter and i show up , they were especi glad to see him and promptli gave him the role of mordechai . today walter , who made aliyah in 2004 at age 80 , ha becom a known name in israel among the english - speak commun , journalist , and the mani diplomat he ha interview . presid isaac herzog visit him on hi birthday . among hi mani honor , he hold two guin world record : as the oldest work journalist in the world , and the oldest activ radio show host . plan for the futurea a pilot , walter onc flew hi airplan solo from england to israel . one of hi most emot moment wa circl low over jerusalem , with tear run down hi cheek . for hi 95th birthday , he went skydiv and is plan anoth jump within the next sever month . hi birthday cake thi year bore the word & ldquo ; until 180 & rdquo ; instead of the usual wish & ldquo ; until 120 & rdquo ; becaus as walter say , there is still much more work to be done .■ & lsquo ; kaddish & rsquo ; in birkenauwalt bingham particip in the 2024 commemor of holocaust remembr day in poland and recit mourner & rsquo ; kaddish in front of 7 , 000 particip . the commemor includ 55 holocaust survivor , sever of whom were also survivor of the oct . 7 hama attack in israel . & ldquo ; it wa veri emot , & rdquo ; bingham told in jerusalem . the event , organ by march of the live , begin at the auschwitz concentr camp , with student and other march to the ruin of the birkenau camp . a seri of speech and prayer took place near where the birkenau ga chamber were locat . among the particip were rabbi yisrael meir lau , a survivor and former chief rabbi of israel ; popular isra singer noa kirel , who sang & ldquo ; eli eli & rdquo ; ; and idf chief cantor shai abramson , who recit the el maleh rachamim ( prayer of merci ) . bingham note that march of the live had distribut blue jacket and isra flag to particip , give the impress of a sea of blue as they march . mani of the particip pledg to pay homag to the survivor and made a commit to transmit the histori and lesson of the holocaust to the next gener .