the govern , rabbi , and gener public have been at their wit & rsquo ; end argu about whether and how to encourag haredi ( ultra - orthodox ) yeshiva student to join the israel defens forc and / or get an academ educ to be abl to support their famili and strengthen the economi . accord to newli publish research support by the edmond de rothschild foundat and publish in the journal learn , cultur , and social interact , 93 . 8 % of haredi student at the jerusalem colleg of technolog ( jct ) describ have a posit experi in volunt program . haredi student & rsquo ; particip in volunt program offer by their colleg can make other member of their commun more inclin to enrol in higher educ , the studi reveal . the studi , led by dr . zvika orr , prof . edith blit - cohen , maya vardi , bina beieri , and prof . daphna golan - agnon , found that student volunt from underrepres minor group like israel & rsquo ; s ultra - orthodox sector can bridg the gap between academ institut and their commun by serv as agent of societ chang . & ldquo ; thi is the first studi to explor commun engag program involv haredi student , and it is our hope that the find can serv as a templat for analyz student & rsquo ; commun engag among variou minor group worldwid , & rdquo ; said orr , a senior lectur in the selma jelinek school of nurs at jct , who , along with dr . adi finkelstein , is the co - founder and co - director of the colleg & rsquo ; s lev bakehila commun engag program . the paper examin respons from questionnair and in - depth qualit interview with student enrol at jct , mani of whom are first - gener student . a case studi on jct student contain within the report aim to show how social engag can impact minor and underrepres group navig the academ world . student respons were base on sever volunt program , includ perah , a volunt framework in which colleg student serv as tutor to younger children and provid them with academ and emot assist ; lev bakehila , where student work to promot the right of peopl with disabl affili with jerusalem & rsquo ; s haredi commun ; and the payi scholarship and impact program , in which student engag in volunt work in a varieti of field and organ , such as school , commun center , hospit , and assist - live facil . haredi student volunt : experi is inform and enrich & ldquo ; through their commun engag , haredi student act as agent of knowledg and chang in their commun . although thi process is wrought with challeng and dilemma , the haredi student volunt describ their experi as inform and enrich . thi case studi illumin how commun engag can help underrepres student cope with navig their commun and the academ world , & rdquo ; said prof . blit - cohen of the paul baerwald school of social work and social welfar at the hebrew univers of jerusalem ( hu ) . respons from student particip in the studi reveal that their commun engag experi help them bridg the gap between the haredi and academ world . the author said that commun engag serv as a posit catalyst among the ultra - orthodox becaus volunt coincid with one of the basic religi and cultur valu practic in their commun , where the prevail discours emphas charit and benevol endeavor , act of love kind , and compass . addit , commun engag work help them foster social chang within their commun . dure their servic , they were abl to formul a new percept of social phenomena and offer thi newli adopt perspect within their commun . in the interview , those involv in a disabl right project , for exampl , mention their sens of commit to chang social percept about peopl with disabl in their haredi commun and beyond . along with the mani well - document social and academ benefit associ with commun engag , volunt servic also reflect jct & rsquo ; s institut commit not onli to excel on academ and religi level but also to fulfil the colleg & rsquo ; s respons to make posit contribut to societi . the studi & rsquo ; s author chose to spotlight haredi student becaus they are often caught at the crossroad between their commun and academia . accord to the central bureau of statist ( cb ) , in 2020 , onli four percent of isra student were ultra - orthodox , less than a third of their share in the colleg - age popul , and the dropout rate among haredi student is almost three time higher ( 23 . 9 % ) than the rate among non - haredi jewish student ( 8 . 2 % ) . & ldquo ; given our find , we are call for more inclus commun engag program that reflect and further enhanc the divers in higher educ , & rdquo ; orr conclud . & ldquo ; it appear that the key solut for the optim integr of haredi student in commun engag program should be understand the uniqu need and cultur sensit of thi commun . & rdquo ;