the first group of an estim 7 , 500 foreign passport holder trap in gaza sinc the israel - hama war began on octob 7 , were abl to leav the besieg enclav for egypt through the rafah cross after week of intens diplomat effort . at least 320 foreign nation , includ us and british citizen , and dozen of sever injur gazan were among the first beneficiari of the qatari - mediat deal broker between egypt , israel and hama . & nbsp ; they were driven through the rafah border cross and underw secur check , offici said . diplomat said initi foreign nation evacue were expect to travel by road to cairo and fli out from there . egypt ' s health ministri said 16 medic evacue had been transfer to hospit in the northern sinai region , 11 to al arish and five to bir al - abd . egypt ha also prepar a field hospit at sheikh zuweid , 15 km ( 9 mile ) from rafah , to treat evacue from gaza . us state depart spokesman matthew miller said a number of those who left were american citizen , but that he would not provid a head count . there are some 400 us citizen who have express a desir to leav , which togeth with their famili member would constitut a group of some 1 , 000 peopl , he said . us presid joe biden , who ha been heavili involv in secur their safe passag post on x , & ldquo ; today , thank to american leadership , we secur safe passag for wound palestinian and for foreign nation to exit gaza . & ldquo ; we expect american citizen to exit today , and we expect to see more depart over the come day . we won ' t let up work to get american out of gaza . 7 , & rdquo ; he state . & nbsp ; an ' import first step ' us nation secur advisor spokesperson john kirbi told report on board & ldquo ; air forc one & rdquo ; that the exist of the foreign from gaza & ldquo ; wa an import first step & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; a signific breakthrough . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; it is the direct result of week of effort and person diplomaci by the presid as well as the secretari of state and of cours our special envoy on the ground david satterfield , & rdquo ; kirbi said . biden discuss the arrang with egyptian presid abdel fattah al - sisi and prime minist benjamin netanyahu earlier thi week . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the state depart ha been in contact with us citizen in gaza , tell them to be readi to leav and to await further instruct , & rdquo ; kirbi said . unit nation special coordin for the middl east peac process tor wennesland said the exit of the foreign wa `` an import step in the right direct , which we need to build on . & rdquo ; dr fathi abu al - hassan , a u . s . passport holder , describ hellish condit insid gaza without water , food or shelter . '' we open our eye on dead peopl and we close our eye on dead peopl , '' he said while wait to cross into egypt . '' if thi happen in ani other countri ... even in the desert , ( peopl ) will combin togeth to ( help ) us , '' he said . nahe abu taeema , director of the nasser hospit in the gaza strip , told reuter 19 critic injur patient from hi hospit would be among the 81 be evacu to egypt . '' those requir advanc surgeri that can ' t be done here becaus of the lack of capabl , especi women and children , '' said abu taeema . the breakthrough come as israel and the intern commun explor avenu to secur the releas of over 240 hostag hama took captiv when they infiltr southern israel on octob 7 . the attack , dure which hama kill over 1 , 400 peopl includ by burn and dismemb them , spark the gaza war . israel ha sinc bombard gaza and ha sent in ground troop as part of is campaign to oust hama from the enclav . the terror group ha forcibl control gaza sinc 2007 . hama ha assert that over 8 , 500 palestinian in gaza have been kill from war - relat violenc . israel ha ban the entri of good , food , medicin and fuel into gaza through it passag , but ha allow a limit amount of humanitarian aid into the strip through rafah . the us ha push for a plan that would allow for 100 truck a day , but ha yet to meet that goal , although the number continu to rise . aid offici have said the good are not enough to prevent a humanitarian crisi . at issu in particular ha been israel & rsquo ; s ban on fuel , which it fear hama would divert for militari purpos . both the us and israel have said that hama ha fuel that it could provid for humanitarian use . the intern commut ha focus on the civilian cost of the war , particularli the harm done to hospit and the jabalia refuge camp as israel battl a terror group whose infrastructur is locat within a civilian popul . hospit struggl to cope amid shutdown forc by shortag in fuel , medic student ezzedin lulu , work at al shifa hospit in gaza , film himself walk through corridor fill with sleep children shelter from the bombard . '' i can heal the wound , i can stop the bleed , i can not heal the cold of these children ' s bodi . i see them shake while they are sleep , they have noth to cover themselv with . winter is come ... stop the inhuman , '' he said . anoth blast shook jabalia , gaza ' s largest refuge camp , on wednesday , a day after palestinian health offici said an isra air strike kill about 50 peopl and wound 150 there . israel said it had kill a hama command in tuesday ' s attack . there wa no immedi word on possibl casualti from the second explos , but footag show smoke billow abov the camp and peopl sift through pile of rubbl and carri away the injur . '' it is a massacr , '' said one wit at the scene of what other wit said wa an isra air strike in the fallujah district of the larg camp in the urban sprawl of north gaza . the isra militari later issu a statement say it fighter jet had struck a hama command and control complex in jabalia `` base on precis intellig , '' kill the head of the islamist group ' s anti - tank missil unit , muhammad a ' sar . '' hama deliber build it terror infrastructur under , around and within civilian build , intent endang gazan civilian , '' the statement said . european union foreign polici chief josep borrel said he wa appal by the high number of casualti in jabalia and he urg all side to respect the `` law of war and human ... ''