& lsquo ; what a night , & rdquo ; wrote zvika klein , editor - in - chief of the jerusalem post , on facebook . & ldquo ; it wa fill with inspir , sad , hope , and prayer . & rdquo ; on sunday even , june 2 , the post host a special gala even at 583 park avenu , prior to it annual confer in new york on monday . the invit - onli cocktail recept for some 200 vip guest wa organ with bank leumi and wa held in cooper with the israel defens and secur forum ( idsf ) . amir avivi , founder of the forum , interview by klein , state that israel is face a global war on behalf of western societi but must seek strateg independ for war materi to ensur the countri & rsquo ; s defens . & ldquo ; we are face a global war ; thi is a chines / russian front , & rdquo ; he said . consequ , the us posit on militari oper & ldquo ; endang not onli israel but all of western societi . & rdquo ; avivi advoc for isra strateg independ in munit and other militari equip to counter the arm embargo that israel is face from some of it western alli . for israel to be abl to stand on it own without reli on other is a zionist principl , he explain . though the idf is destroy hama on the battlefield , the forum & rsquo ; s founder said , the gazan terrorist group believ that it can surviv by foster intern pressur on israel and spark an isra elect . ronit farkash , director of strateg partnership at idsf , said that her son is among the soldier fight hama in gaza . a hama sniper shot him , and while hi ceram vest save him , he suffer shrapnel wound and burn . though still recov from hi wound , farkash & rsquo ; s son return to hi unit in gaza onli a few day later becaus hi brother in arm need him . & ldquo ; that is the power of be unit . that is the mean of be connect to someth bigger than just yourself , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; our nation & rsquo ; s strength lie in it peopl and in our abil to come togeth in the face of advers . we draw courag from each other , from the stori of braveri and sacrific , from the unwav support of friend , neighbor , and even stranger . & rdquo ; idsf ceo lt .- col . ( re . ) yaron buskila , who serv in the gaza war , describ the chao he wit on oct . 7 , when peopl were call him for help . beyond the tragedi and trauma of the massacr , buskila said he had also seen imag of victori . he recal the score of car and buse carri thousand of reservist head south to answer the call to arm , as well as peopl come from all over the world to donat food and volunt with the soldier . & ldquo ; we are a gener of victori , & rdquo ; he said . diaspora affair and combat antisemit minist amichai chikli , speak with klein , discuss the challeng israel face in reduc hama & rsquo ; s militari capabl and the need for sustain effort similar to those follow oper defens shield in 2002 . chikli predict that anoth two year of reduc militari activ would be necessari in order to reach the desir level of secur for israel & rsquo ; s south . he then turn hi attent to antisemit in the us , draw parallel between the situat in gaza and the need for vigil in america . he note that despit the increas in antisemit incid , the major of american continu to support israel . chikli outlin hi ministri & rsquo ; s multifacet approach to combat antisemit . & ldquo ; first of all , the main mission is to support the commun in term of secur , monitor antisemit , [ and ] investig these organ such as sjp [ student for justic in palestin ] , & rdquo ; he explain . the ministri is also focus on trace fund sourc for these organ , which often receiv signific contribut from chariti and state like qatar . in addit , it support local organ and campu group such as hillel , olami , and chabad . chikli mention the import of deleg , such as those of the famili of hostag and victim from oct . 7 , in rais awar and garner support . the minist stress the import of continu vigil and support for jewish commun worldwid . he said hi ministri is dedic to ensur the safeti and secur of these commun while also foster a deeper connect to their heritag and the state of israel . jerusalem mayor mosh lion comment that the current surg in antisemit is reminisc of germani in the 1930 . & ldquo ; far from home , we see the terribl scene you have experienc & ndash ; on campu , on the street , with attack on jew & ndash ; like we have not seen sinc 1930 germani , & rdquo ; the mayor said . & ldquo ; have no doubt & ndash ; the jewish peopl are under attack . & rdquo ; lion describ the difficult war that israel is wage against it enemi . & ldquo ; on our border sit terror armi , shoot missil on our head . court and parliament worldwid tri to stop us from defend our peopl . & rdquo ; despit the difficulti , he said , jerusalem is readi to face the challeng . & ldquo ; we are continu to build , across the citi , for the benefit of all the commun : jew , muslim , christian , and more . & rdquo ; lion also mention the plight of the hostag in front of some 70 of their famili member who attend the event . & ldquo ; in gaza , our brother and sister , men , women , children and babi , are be held captiv by the worst terrorist , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; we all pray to have them home with their famili . & rdquo ; a group of 70 rel attend the recept . sever address guest at the gala and describ the harsh realiti they have encount sinc oct . 7 . on that horrif day , the idan famili wa in their home in kibbutz nahal oz . hama terrorist broke into the build , shot and kill 18 - year - old maayan , and held the famili at gunpoint for hour , stream live video from the phone of her mother , gali , on her facebook account . her father , tsachi , wa taken hostag . & ldquo ; i wa in tel aviv , & rdquo ; devorah idan , tsachi & rsquo ; s mother , recount on stage . & ldquo ; we saw what wa happen & ndash ; we watch for hour . we saw the children cri , ask the terrorist whi they kill their sister . & rdquo ; eventu , tsachi wa taken away . & ldquo ; for us , that day ha never end , & rdquo ; idan said . & ldquo ; we live in a perpetu nightmar . my granddaught wa kill , and my son wa kidnap . he did not get to go to her funer . he did not get to mourn for her . i came [ here ] all the way from israel to ask for help . & rdquo ; mosh emilio lavi , a former idf captain from sderot who now work as a manag consult in new york , critic the isra author , includ some of the offici attend the gala even . lavi & rsquo ; s brother - in - law omri miran is be held in gaza . & ldquo ; everi time i address an intern bodi or foreign govern offici , i ask them to keep hama account , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; at the same time , i hold my govern account . we know there is an isra propos for an agreement on the tabl . on octob 8 , we were promis that bring the hostag home wa the most import short - term object of the war becaus time wa of the essenc . after that , we could tackl the challeng of destroy hama . & rdquo ; lavi recount the horror experienc by omri , hi sister lishay , and hi young niec roni and alma at kibbutz nahal oz at the hand of the hama terrorist . lishay and the girl surviv and were rescu by the idf ; omri wa taken hostag . & ldquo ; roni will turn three in juli , and all she is ask is that her father is with her for her birthday , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; she know he alreadi miss her mom & rsquo ; s birthday and her littl sister & rsquo ; s first birthday . she just want him back . & rdquo ; ronen neutra describ hi son omer , a 22 - year - old soldier kidnap on oct . 7 , as the & ldquo ; poster boy & rdquo ; for the american jewish dream . & ldquo ; omer is an american kid . grow up , he love sport , and he wa veri involv with hi jewish youth movement , & rdquo ; he recal . neutra explain that he and hi wife , who both hold dual american and isra citizenship and are children of holocaust survivor , understood and support omer & rsquo ; s desir to serv in the idf . & ldquo ; on octob 6 , he call us , and he said he wa expect a quiet shabbat after a month of veri intens work , spend some 18 hour a day on hi tank , & rdquo ; neutra recount . when the attack began , he and hi comrad rush to the border with their tank . & ldquo ; hi whole team wa taken , & rdquo ; neutra said . & ldquo ; two of them were kill , and two were taken captiv . & ldquo ; sinc then , my wife and i are fight to bring my son and all the other hostag back , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; we feel the american author have been veri support , but we are not sure about the isra govern . everyon should rememb that redeem captiv is a central valu in the torah . i ask everyon in thi room to do what they can to help bring my son and all the other hostag home . & rdquo ; after the panel , all the famili member of hostag attend the event went up on stage . the recept end with the sing of & ldquo ; hatikvah . & rdquo ; thi articl wa written in cooper with the israel defens and secur forum .