& nbsp ; portug would reloc it embassi to jerusalem onli when the citi is the capit of both the state of israel and the state of palestin , portugues foreign minist santo silva told the jerusalem post dure hi two - day visit . hi countri ha no plan to follow the unit state on thi issu , he said as he sat on the veranda of jerusalem @ @ @ s king david hotel , locat in the western part of the citi . portug would contempl such a move he said , onli on & quot ; the day when i can put the two embassi in jerusalem , the embassi of portug in israel and the embassi of portug in palestin . & quot ; when ask if he consid that the locat where he sat wa part of israel , he said , & quot ; i think it is a matter of fact . & quot ; but when it came to the question of whether he consid jerusalem to be israel @ @ @ s capit , he said care , & quot ; you know the portugues embassi is in tel aviv . & quot ; silva arriv in israel late sunday night , on the sidelin of a much more public visit by us white hous senior advis jare kushner on monday , follow by a departur tuesday of a joint isra - us deleg to morocco to sign the initi document with regard to the normal of tie between jerusalem and rabat . silva brave the covid - 19 pandem to travel visit israel and the palestinian territori just day befor the christma holiday , as part of hi preparatori work in advanc of hi countri @ @ @ s januari ascend to the presid of council of the european union . it @ @ @ s a rotat half year posit , which hi countri will take over from germani . germani use that posit to attempt to sooth over tension between the eu and israel on two major issu ; the isra - palestinian conflict and iran . it invit foreign minist gabi ashkenazi to a meet of hi eu counterpart and spoke of reconven the eu - israel associ council , which last met in 2012 . silva in jerusalem spoke of the need for warm israel - eu tie and of the import of an eu - israel associ council meet . he note the point of disagr with israel but said that he want to address issu from a place of dialogu . in a manner similar to the german , he said that israel @ @ @ s pledg to suspend the annex of west bank settlement in exchang for normal deal with the unti arab emir and bahrain had open the door for improv israel - eu relat as well . & quot ; it wa import that the normal process meant suspens of the annex plan , & quot ; silva said when he spoke with the post on monday night . & quot ; it allow us to see futur convers and cooper with israel in a much more posit way , & quot ; silva said . he warn that should israel backtrack on that pledg , the potenti of improv israel - eu tie would be harm . & quot ; it would be a huge problem for us . it would be an obstacl for deepen the cooper between the two entiti , & quot ; he said . it wa explain to him , silva said , that & quot ; normal wa the opposit of annex . & quot ; silva spoke posit of the us - broker abraham accord under whose rubric isra - arab deal have been reach . silva said the accord breath life new life into the region and the frozen peac process with the palestinian . the entri of us presid - elect joe biden to the white hous would also open new possibl in that sphere , he said . & quot ; we have to look care at the recent chang in the region , and then we have to creat condit for the relaunch of direct negoti between isra and palestinian , & quot ; he said . & quot ; palestinian and isra & quot ; need thi , silva said , ad that the eu want to help facilit thi process . it wa a messag that he carri with him when he went to ramallah on tuesday befor fli back to portug in the late afternoon . palestinian author prime minist muham shtayyeh and pa foreign minist riyad malki both ask that portug unilater recogn palestinian statehood . it @ @ @ s a request that portug ha rebuf becaus it believ that such a step should onli be taken by consensu with the entir european union , and at present the bloc is divid on the issu . the portugues parliament ha call on it govern to recogn palestinian statehood ; but to date the eu and the portugues govern hold that palestinian statehood recognit could onli come upon complet of a final statu agreement for a two - state resolut to the conflict . but portug and the eu agre with the pa that the contour of a two - state solut should be base on the pre - 1967 line with east jerusalem as the palestinian capit . both portug and the eu oppos isra settlement activ . silva spoke with post about thi disagr , explain that hi countri and the eu oppos all settlement activ and the isra practic of demolish illeg palestinian structur . & quot ; we have to pursu our isra friend not to pursu the demolit , & quot ; silva said , ad that he wa particularli concern by israel @ @ @ s demolit of eu - fund structur for palestinian . the eu @ @ @ s decis to pursu such build without permit , which are difficult to obtain , ha been a point of content between the eu and israel . he note that despit the disagr with israel , he held the relat between the two countri to be veri import , both becaus of the histor tie , and becaus of the contemporari tie and similar characterist . & quot ; we are close countri , & quot ; he said .