hama and a number of palestinian arm group vow on monday to aveng the death of five gunmen kill by isra secur forc dure a raid on aqbat jaber refuge camp , locat on the outskirt of jericho . the five , identifi by hama as malek lafi , 22 , ra & rsquo ; fat oweidat , 21 , ibrahim oweidat , 27 , thaer oweidat , 28 , and adham oweidat , 22 , belong to the group & rsquo ; s arm wing , izaddin al - qassam . palestinian sourc said the gunmen oper in the camp under the name of a group call aqbat jaber camp battalion . a new arm palestinian gunmen group ha form in jerichoth new group , the first of it kind in the jericho area , is seen by the sourc as part of an attempt to imit similar militia that have been oper in the northern west bank over the past year : jenin battalion , nablu battalion and balata refuge camp battalion , as well as the lion & rsquo ; den and al - aqsa martyr brigad . while these group consist mostli of member of palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) and the rule fatah faction head by palestinian author presid mahmoud abba , the slain aqbat jaber cell member all belong to hama . two of the gunmen were involv in a shoot attack on januari 28 against an isra - own caf & eacut ; at almog junction , locat onli a few kilomet away from aqbat jaber refuge camp . no one wa hurt . sinc the attack , the idf ha impos strict secur measur in the jericho area , a move that badli hurt the local economi , which reli mainli on local tourism . the camp is locat across the street from the oasi casino , the first gambl facil in the west bank . the casino ha been shut sinc the start of the second intifada more than 20 year ago . some of the camp resid previous work in the casino and a nearbi hotel . last year , unconfirm report claim that israel and the palestinian were discuss the possibl of allow the casino to reopen . the report reviv hope in aqbat jaber camp in particular and jericho in gener that the local economi would be strengthen onc the gambler , most of whom were isra citizen , return to the casino . despit the closur of the casino , jericho ha over the past few year wit an unpreced boom in local tourism as dozen of luxuri villa have pop up in and around the citi . in addit , mani foreign tourist have return to the citi in recent year . the villa , own by arab isra and resid of east jerusalem , are offer for rent on a daili , weekli and monthli basi . most of the client are palestinian famili from east jerusalem and the west bank , as well as arab isra . & ldquo ; the street of jericho were empti after the shoot oper [ at the almog junction ] , & rdquo ; said a resid of east jerusalem who own two villa in jericho . & ldquo ; mani peopl couldn & rsquo ; t go to jericho becaus of the isra checkpoint . peopl rent the villa for privat event , includ birthday parti and wed . & rdquo ; he and other palestinian who own busi in jericho express fear that the phenomenon of arm group and anarchi would spread from jenin and nablu to their citi . they reveal that some activist from jenin and nablu move to jericho over the past year . jericho : onc a `` sleepi town `` with stabil despit violenc in the west bankonc describ as a & ldquo ; sleepi town , & rdquo ; the situat in jericho ha been gener stabl over the past year , despit the signific upsurg of violenc in the northern west bank . the calm allow mani arab investor from israel and the west bank to purchas rel cheap land and build villa as vacat home for themselv and to put on the boom short - term rental market . the call by hama and other palestinian group for aveng the kill of the five aqbat jaber milit indic that the secur situat in the jericho area could further deterior in the come day and week . in a statement publish shortli after the arm clash in the camp , hama prais the & ldquo ; heroic resist fighter & rdquo ; and said that the & ldquo ; confront with the enemi confirm onc again that our peopl are on the path of resist and liber and won & rsquo ; t be intimid by the crime of the occup . & rdquo ; the aqbat baber camp battalion also pledg to retali for the kill of it men , although it remain unclear whether the group ha more member oper in the camp and other area of jericho . what is certain , howev , is that the hama member oper insid a camp locat onli a few hundr meter away from the main headquart of the pa secur forc in the citi . it is also locat not far from the notori jericho prison , where the palestinian secur forc often hold palestinian suspect of be affili with hama and pij . the pa leadership , which recent decid to halt secur coordin with israel in respons to the kill of nine palestinian , mostli gunmen , dure a similar isra secur oper in jenin refuge camp , on monday condemn the & ldquo ; new crime & rdquo ; in aqbat jaber camp . in a statement issu by abba & rsquo ; s offic , the pa accus the isra govern of continu it & ldquo ; crime & rdquo ; against the palestinian . hour befor the incid in aqbat jaber camp , abba chair a meet of the command of the palestinian secur forc and discuss with them the ongo tension and violenc , especi in the west bank . at the meet , abba reportedli reaffirm the palestinian leadership & rsquo ; s decis to end the secur coordin with israel . in the same breath , he also instruct the palestinian secur servic & ldquo ; to assum their role in preserv the rule of law , public secur and civil peac . & rdquo ; thi wa not the first time in recent month that abba ha issu such instruct to hi secur forc . yet , despit the instruct , the pa secur forc have fail to take signific action against arm group and gunmen in jenin and nablu , who continu to oper freeli in area under hi control and carri out attack against isra soldier and civilian . and there & rsquo ; s no reason whatsoev to think that these secur forc will now take meaning measur to stop jericho from join jenin and nablu as terror hub in the west bank .