the idf thwart a stab attack against civilian at a bu stop at the giti avishar junction in the samaria region of the west bank , kill the palestinian terrorist . no civilian or soldier were injur in the friday morn attack . the soldier who shot at the terrorist describ the event of the attack in a video that wa sent out to the isra media . & ldquo ; a car stop near me , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; a terrorist got out of the car wield a knife , yell & lsquo ; allahu akbar & rsquo ; [ god is great ] and ran toward me . i shot in order to neutral him . & rdquo ; the idf explain that the terrorist had run in the direct of a bu stop where both soldier and civilian were stand . the idf later arrest the man who had driven the attack to the scene . he wa not carri weapon and wa taken in for question . earlier thi week , defens minist benni gantz held a meet with palestinian author presid mahmoud abba in an effort to thwart a violent palestinian upris in the west bank . the rare meet , which took place in gantz & rsquo ; s rosh ha & rsquo ; ayin home , wa the second one between the two leader . they had met in august in ramallah . last month palestinian terrorist kill 25 - year - old yehuda dimentman and lightli wound two other . they spray bullet at a vehicl as it left the homesh hilltop in the direct of the shavei shomron settlement , in the samaria region . in an interview with armi radio on thursday , coordin of govern activ in the territori maj .- gen . ghassan alian told armi radio that the situat wa tens and that the pa want to maintain stabil and de - escal the situat . samaria region council head yossi dagan visit the scene of the attack . after prais the soldier & rsquo ; conduct dure the incid , dagan blame the govern & rsquo ; s polici of not act strongli enough against terror . & ldquo ; the isra govern , unfortun , is harm it deterr and lose it time and time again ; we see thi in sever attack attempt , over and over again , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; i call on the isra govern to wake up , and to learn from idf soldier how to fight terror . terror is not negoti , terror is not embrac : terror is defeat and terror is fought and erad . & rdquo ; accord to idf data releas midweek , the number of palestinian shoot and stab attack against isra civilian and secur forc in the west bank ha doubl to the highest it ha been in four year . the data doe not includ all of decemb . there were 31 incid of palestinian shoot at isra secur forc and civilian in 2019 , compar to 61 thi year . there were also nine stab incid compar to 18 in 2021 . isra fatal , howev , remain low . last year there were two victim : st .- sgt . amit ben yigal , 21 , kill in a militari oper in the west bank villag of yabad , and esther horgan , a civilian who wa kill while jog near her home in the tal menash settlement . thi year there were two civilian casualti , both in the samaria region : dimentman and yehuda guetta , 19 , who wa kill at the tapuah junction .