the idf ha reinforc the gaza divis ahead of ralli plan for wednesday by palestinian in the gaza strip . the reinforc includ two unit of special forc , an armor compani and sniper , the idf said tuesday . & ldquo ; idf forc will act vigor in the face of terrorist attempt at the fenc , & rdquo ; it said . the decis to reinforc the gaza divis came follow a situat assess led by oc southern command maj .- gen . eliez toledano . dure the meet , offic discuss the locat of variou forc , procedur for open fire and approv oper plan . the meet took place ahead of a ralli the palestinian have call & ldquo ; the sword of jerusalem shall not be sheath , & rdquo ; a refer to hama & rsquo ; s name for the fight that took place in may . the idf is prepar for a varieti of scenario , includ violent riot along the perimet fenc , the launch of incendiari balloon and rocket fire toward isra commun . & ldquo ; the idf will respond strongli to terrorist attempt and hold the hama terrorist organ respons for everyth that is happen in the gaza strip , & rdquo ; the idf said . on saturday , dure a violent riot along the gaza perimet fenc , border polic offic bar - el shmueli wa shot in the head by a hama terrorist who approach hi posit and shot shmueli with a handgun . shmueli underw sever oper at soroka - univers medic center in beersheba and wa in critic condit , intub and sedat . follow critic that no senior idf offic came to the hospit , chief of staff lt .- gen . aviv kohavi and toledano visit hi bedsid on tuesday . more than 41 palestinian , includ 10 children , were injur dure the demonstr , the gaza strip & rsquo ; s health ministri report . among them were a 13 - year - old boy who wa hit in the head east of gaza citi , someon who wa hit in the neck with a rubber bullet , a woman and a journalist , it said . gaza is engag in an open militari confront with israel with the aim of put pressur to end the 11 - year blockad on the coastal enclav , palestinian islam jihad spokesman daoud shehab said tuesday . & ldquo ; the palestinian resist look at what is happen today in jerusalem and the attack in the west bank , and it alway ha it hand on the trigger , & rdquo ; he wa quot as say by the palestinian ma & rsquo ; an news agenc . & ldquo ; the resist is follow all of thi and is readi and readi in case the occup tri to chang the rule of engag , & rdquo ; shehab said , ad that group in the gaza strip are & ldquo ; readi to respond to ani aggress . & rdquo ; isra defens offici believ hama is readi for anoth round of fight . it ha said it is satisfi with the outcom of oper guardian of the wall , but hama & rsquo ; s rocket arsen wa not hit as hard as it would have like .