prime minist benjamin netanyahu conclud hi secur cabinet meet in the earli hour of friday morn , amid a new barrag of rocket fire from gaza . & nbsp ; '' israel ' s respons , tonight and later on , will exact a signific price from our enemi , '' said netanyahu at the meet ' s conclus . & nbsp ; at the meet ' s conclus , accord to armi radio , defens minist yoav gallant said : `` [ we are ] prepar for the variou possibl - we will know how to act against ani threat . `` & nbsp ; passov rocket attacksrocket siren sound across northern israel on thursday afternoon , dure the passov holiday , amid a barrag of rocket attack launch across the northern border with lebanon , the idf confirm . siren sound in dozen of northern isra town and villag , especi in western galile , amid a barrag of rocket from israel ' s northern border . prime minist benjamin netanyahu ' s offic sent out a statement on thursday afternoon , say the prime minist will hold a situat assess with hi secur cabinet later on thursday , includ israel polic chief kobi shabtai . & nbsp ; the secur cabinet is expect to meet at 9 : 15 p . m . defens minist yoav gallant also said he wa familiar with the detail of the secur situat in israel ' s north , ad that initi order were given to the idf for a respons . idf chief of staff herzi halevi later conven a meet with the idf gener staff , with shin bet chief ronen bar attend as well . ראש המטה הכללי , רב - אלוף הרצי הלוי , וראש השב ״ כ , רונן בר , מקיימים כעת הערכת מצב משותפת עם פורום המטה הכללי בבסיס הקריה בתל אביב pic . twitter . com / wdga1id4v & mdash ; צבא ההגנה לישראל ( @ idfonlin ) april 6 , 2023defens minist gallant & nbsp ; instruct the defens establish to advanc all option for an isra respons , in prepar for the secur cabinet meet . gallant conduct a meet with the head of the secur organ , concern the rocket fire on the last day from lebanon and the gaza strip . in addit , gallant receiv an intellig updat on the latest develop in all theater . the barrag includ 34 rocket launch from lebanes territori into isra territori , the idf confirm in a statement . of the 34 rocket , 25 were intercept in the air , while five land on isra territori . the locat of four of the rocket is still under investig . local resid report hear loud blast echo across northern israel , as red alert sound out in town near the lebanes border , includ matsuva , shlomi , hanita , admit , eylon , hila , rosh hanikra and arab al - aramash . the rocket barrag from lebanon come amid increas tension between palestinian and isra secur forc on templ mount , with clash report between arm palestinian and isra polic in al - aqsa . the isra & nbsp ; air forc also struck in gaza on wednesday in respons to rocket fire from the strip target southern israel earlier thi week . one isra injur by shrapnel one isra wa report lightli injur follow the rocket barrag . magen david adom said the isra wa hit by shrapnel , while anoth isra wa injur on her way to a shelter and anoth suffer from ptsd . galile medic center confirm that one isra , a resid of the druze villag of yanuh - jat , wa injur while ride a two - wheeler in an open field in the north . as a result of the rocket that land on isra territori , a number of fire broke out and are current be extinguish , accord to the israel fire and rescu servic . the northern isra citi of kiryat shmona issu a statement to it resid , urg caution amid the rocket barrag while reassur them that the citi ' s oper will be continu as plan . the municip of nahariya and karmiel announc that they would open the public bunker in the citi , in prepar for possibl event . follow a situat assess conduct in the municip , the mayor of ashkelon , direct the open of shelter and bunker throughout the citi on thursday even , emphas that the move wa intend to increas the sens of secur among the resid and that there were no special instruct at thi time . unifil respond to the rocket attack in a statement on twitter : `` head of mission and forc command major gener aroldo l & aacut ; zaro is in contact with author on both side of the blue line . the current situat is extrem seriou . unifil urg restraint and to avoid further escal . '' thi is a develop stori .