in the wake of recent event , the necess to learn from histori and honor the memori of past atroc ha taken on renew urgenc . as the global commun gear up to commemor holocaust remembr day , yad vashem & ndash ; israel & rsquo ; s rever memori to the victim of the holocaust & ndash ; stand as a poignant remind of the peril of forget the lesson of the past . schedul for sunday even , may 5 , the solemn state open ceremoni at yad vashem & rsquo ; s warsaw ghetto squar hold a particular reson . the oct . 7 massacr , where jew live in southern israel were brutal attack and murder by genocid - driven terrorist , felt unfathom familiar . these event rang a familiar , unnerv tone : of the presenc of unwav hate and the dire consequ that await if we choos to ignor the histori of event that led up to the persecut of jew and the holocaust . eclips onli by the global trend of antisemit , these occurr give us caus for renew worri and angst . colleg and univers campus , meant to be incub of enlighten and leadership , are onc again be use as hotb for hatr and extrem . thi beg the question : if our futur leader are be influenc , what kind of futur is in store for diaspora jewri ? the theme of holocaust remembr day 2024it is therefor veri appropri that at the heart of thi year & rsquo ; s holocaust remembr day is the theme & ldquo ; a lost world : the destruct of the jewish commun . & rdquo ; a profound acknowledg of the devast wrought upon the fabric of jewish life by the effect of uncheck antisemit . the jewish commun , a uniqu and autonom social unit that character jewish exist in the diaspora for centuri , wa dealt a fatal blow that devast the live and commun of thousand of pre - war jew , mani of which had form the veri bedrock of jewish exist . the rise of the nazi parti and the establish of german hegemoni over europ plung jewish commun into a realiti of persecut and terror . the establish of ghetto onli serv to further isol entir commun , forc these leader to enforc nazi decre and assum duti formerli entrust to government bodi . final , the ultim campaign , the systemat extermin of jew in europ and north africa , inflict utter devast upon thousand of commun , leav behind a landscap of destruct and loss . while the oct . 7 massacr dealt a blow to our nation & rsquo ; s sens of secur and seren , the cruelti inflict upon the isra - jewish popul did not mark anoth holocaust . thi nuanc reflect honor the individu live of each tragedi . remembr and educ lie at the heart of a remedi for thi diseas known as antisemit . that is whi the annual memori ceremoni broadcast across the world in five languag includ arab is so critic . the symbol memori torch , to be lit thi year by holocaust survivor and chairman of the yad vashem council rabbi israel meir lau & ndash ; someon who epitom triumph of the human spirit over advers & ndash ; must transcend into realiti if we have ani hope of fight the scourg of antisemit . addit , the stori of the six torch lighter & ndash ; pninah hefer , allegra gutta , ari eitani , raisa brodski , michael bar - on , and izi kabilio & ndash ; onli serv to make the enorm of the atroc more person . yad vashem & rsquo ; s commit to commemor extend beyond the confin of mere ceremoni remembr . for the second year now , it partnership with the our 6 million organ seek to person remembr by allow individu to pay homag to specif victim by light a memori candl bear the name of the murder victim . moreov , yad vashem , the world holocaust remembr center , ha launch an innov initi aim at engag individu from divers background to rais public awar about the holocaust . the who is your holocaust hero ? campaign invit intern leader , influenc , diplomat , and actor to person connect with the holocaust by share the stori of an individu who serv as their holocaust hero . particip are ask to record a short video clip , one to two minut long , and share it on their social media platform . as the world paus to rememb the six million jewish victim of the holocaust , yad vashem reaffirm it commit to preserv their memori and educ futur gener about the import of remembr and toler . through solemn ceremoni , innov initi , and ongo campaign , yad vashem honor the legaci of those who perish , ensur that their stori endur as a beacon of hope and resili for gener to come . ■