& nbsp ; israel ' s holocaust commemor thi year have a sear signific for six elderli survivor now deepli scar by the hama attack of oct . 7 that spark the ongo gaza war . the kill and kidnap spree by palestinian infiltr on a jewish holiday morn shook the sens of secur of isra - not least , those who had wit the state emerg as a safe haven after the nazi genocid . for bellha haim , 86 , the upheav is especi profound . her grandson yotam - like her , a resid of a villag near the gaza border - wa taken hostag by hama and manag to escap , onli to be accident shot dead by isra soldier . the trauma drove haim to return to her nativ poland , which she had fled with her famili as a child dure world war two , and where she will , on monday , take part of the `` march of the live `` at the site of the auschwitz death camp . the annual ceremoni is time to coincid with israel ' s holocaust remembr day . a cohort of univers presid and chancellor from america and canada will particip in the 2024 intern march of the live . the event will be head up by former us secretari of educ dr . john king , now the chancellor of suni , and yeshiva univers presid rabbi dr . ari berman . dr . king lead a system of 64 colleg and univers in new york state , the largest comprehens system of public higher educ in the unit state . the trip will come to a close after holocaust remembr day , dure which particip join holocaust survivor on a solemn march from auschwitz to birkenau to commemor the nazi horror . '' i never went back , and i wasn ' t convinc to go back , '' haim said dure a meet with other survivor ahead of the trip . '' but thi time , when they told me that they were connect the holocaust and what i call the ' holocaust of octob 7 ' - becaus then in the holocaust we ( jew ) were not a unit peopl , we didn ' t have a countri , and suddenli thi pride of mine that ha been broken , my pride in my peopl and my countri that wa shatter in front of my eye - i said , ' thi time i will break my oath , and i will go out . ' '' as a teenag , yotam had taken part in the annual auschwitz vigil , and haim said she saw the event as a chanc for communion with him and other victim of the hama attack . '' i will go out in the name of yotam , who march there when he wa in high school , and i will go out there to shout out the cri of the slain , of the babi , of all my good friend that i will never meet again , & rdquo ; she said . yell in arab and gunfireamong those join her will be 90 - year - old daniel louz , whose hometown , kibbutz beeri , lost a tenth of it resid to the palestinian terrorist . in some way , he said , that ordeal wa wors for him than the european war , when he escap nazi round - up in hi nativ franc , although half hi famili perish in poland . after he awok to the sound of arab yell and gunfir , `` i wa constantli busi with surviv and figur out what to do , '' louz said . `` in franc , as a child , i suffer all kind of post - trauma that i & rsquo ; ve learn to cope with . but in beeri , it wa the first time that i felt the fear of death . '' a neighbor hous wa riddl with bullet . louz ' s wa untouch . he say he imagin the soul of the six million holocaust victim steer hama away from him . `` they probabl want me to be here to tell thi stori , '' he said , weep . other holocaust survivor particip in the march of the live includ smil bercu sacagiu , 87 , whose home wa hit by a rocket from gaza , and jacquelin gliksman , 81 , whose home wa torch by a palestinian infiltr . '' what wa left , and luckili the terrorist didn & rsquo ; t see it , is my grandchildren , '' she said , refer to gold figurin on a necklac she wa wear . `` that ' s the onli thing i have left . '' befor he wa seiz , haim ' s grandson left a text messag : `` they & rsquo ; re burn down my hous . i smell ga . i ' m scare . '' she said that it remind her of a holocaust - era song in yiddish , invok centuri of pogrom , with the refrain `` fire , jew , fire . '' a veteran campaign for peac with the palestinian , haim said she would no longer pursu that activ . '' i ' m not abl to , '' she said . `` now what interest me is onli my peopl . & rdquo ; jerusalem post staff contribut to thi report . & nbsp ;