as he doe everi year , rabbi yisroel goldberg , the director of chabad of rehavia , nahlaot , and kiryat shmuel , is host a passov seder at heichal shlomo , 58 king georg avenu , adjac to the great synagogu . in past year , said goldberg , peopl often wait until the last week to make a reserv , but thi year they start earli , possibl becaus addit particip includ reservist and their famili who , becaus of the tens situat , may be hous in hotel in jerusalem and are not make passov prepar at home ; or jerusalem reservist who don & rsquo ; t have the energi or the wherewith to get everyth readi for a week - long festiv . at the begin of thi week , reserv were alreadi in excess of a hundr peopl and may be doubl by seder night on monday , april 22 . to reserv a place , call ( 02 ) 800 1717 . the latest day for reserv is sunday , april 14 . luxuri hotel turn apart ■ back in the day of the old knesset when luxuri hotel in jerusalem were few and far between , the eden hotel at 25 hillel street , a relic from the period of the british mandat , serv as a home away from home for minist and mk who live a long way from jerusalem . built in 1938 and exud a certain grandeur of a bygon era , it later serv as one of the offic of the immigr absorpt ministri . then , like so mani old build , it stood in a state of neglect for sever year . it is now be partial restor as an integr featur in a develop plan for luxuri resid that will be built by yossi avrahami . the start sale price per unit is ni 3 , 200 , 999 . if all road in israel lead to jerusalem , the develop of thi project prove that point . a larg signboard that list the name and contact detail of peopl respons for the acoust , interior design , engin , and instal such as air - condit and elev includ where these peopl are locat & ndash ; and it & rsquo ; s much farther afield than the distanc between jerusalem and tel aviv . they also come from haifa , hadera , bnei brak , ramat gan , neveh ilan , ganei tikva , netanya , and beyond . but there are also indic that peopl are leav the citi . in the immedi vicin , just around the corner of the block at both end , store have been vacat and bear & ldquo ; for rent & rdquo ; sign . properti in upscal balfour build goe unoccupi ■ regard rent premis , the apart in the old , well - preserv upscal build at 15 balfour street that wa occupi by justic esther hayut dure her year as presid of the suprem court ha been unoccupi sinc her retir in octob becaus justic minist yariv levin refus to approv a successor in accord with the tradit senior system . meanwhil , there are two placard on the fenc & ndash ; one by gilinski invest and properti , and the other by helen duman realti . the secur booth within the ground ha been unman for month . herzog host iftar ■ when larg number of peopl are invit to a recept or a dinner at the presid & rsquo ; s resid , they are ask to come two hour earli becaus each of the invite must go through a secur check , which is a time - consum procedur . usual , the period prior to the actual event is spent chat and network beneath the pergola lead to the main hall . assort refresh are serv in plenti suppli . but when presid isaac herzog last week host an iftar [ ramadan fast - break ] dinner for arab mayor , ambassador of mostli muslim - major countri , and famili whose love one were still be held hostag in gaza , there were no pre - dinner refresh becaus muslim fast dure the month of ramadan , and the iftar feast of break the fast is held after sundown . accord to tradit , the fast is broken by eat a date that is sweet and slightli juici . some of the guest had never been at the presid & rsquo ; s resid , and a special tour wa provid for them . just as they do for the independ day recept for diplomat , the herzog came out approxim half an hour befor dinner to be photograph individu or in group scene with their guest . such scene were captur for poster as guest excitedli photograph each other . sever , when photograph , adopt buddi - buddi pose , and herzog , awar of how import thi wa for them , oblig and put hi arm around one set of shoulder after anoth . later , insid , all the speaker , includ presid herzog , spoke of the signific of work togeth . ali salem , a senior execut member of the feder of local author in israel , call for a ceasefir in gaza . look around at some 150 peopl gather in the main hall , salem assert that each of them is capabl of make peac . he underscor that even after the event of oct . 7 , arab and jewish mayor & ndash ; all of them citizen of israel & ndash ; continu to sit togeth to discuss mutual problem and to tri to find solut . thi is the onli way , he insist , punctuat hi speech again and again with refer to negoti around a tabl . he also said that arab mayor are total in support of herzog in hi effort to find way in which differ commun within the countri can work togeth for the mutual benefit of all . from what wa said throughout the even , it appear that & ldquo ; coexist & rdquo ; is out and & ldquo ; partnership & rdquo ; is in . all speaker refer to work togeth in partnership to achiev peac , harmoni , solidar , and progress . salem also refer to the mount violenc which is caus fear in the arab sector , and ask that israel law enforc author appli themselv more to erad thi violenc . greerfc @ gmail . com