a 5 % across - the - board budget cut for govern ministri wa the main propos in a seri of budget cut laid out at a financ ministri meet on the 2025 budget held wednesday , globe said sourc from the ministri told them . other propos cut includ pay cut for senior manag in the public sector , postpon rais in the civil servic , abolish unnecessari ministri , and a ni 2 to 4 billion cut in fund alloc to coalit parti - all amount to ni 3 . 5 billion , accord to globe . while the total amount of cut that the ministri make in order to reduc israel ' s deficit is critic to the countri ' s econom recoveri ; given israel ' s polit and social climat , the composit of the cut that are made is also critic . unequ treatmentflat budget cut across the board for all ministri will like have signific repercuss for all part of israel ' s societi , which could caus widespread frustrat if the public doe not think that seriou cut to coalit fund , and fund for unnecessari ministri that prop the coalit up are be priorit over cut that hurt the entir public . the recent controversi over the `` rabbi bill `` and the haredi draft law have highlight deep discontent in israel ' s societi when it come to the treatment of differ sector of societi differ and the equal share of nation burden . the rabbi bill aim to give the govern control over appoint of municip and neighborhood rabbi , instead of the current system where the citi appoint their rabbi . as point out in the jerusalem post ' s editori on wednesday , thi bill is wide view as an attempt by the coalit & rsquo ; s haredi parti to appoint it member to posit and gain influenc over issu of religion and state . highlight the sens that thi bill is seen as a coalit job - grab , yesh atid mk yaron levi sum up the inequ mani felt thi bill strengthen . & ldquo ; if the prime minist can approv 1 , 000 new rabbi , and not 1 , 000 psychologist , then thi place is a piec of trash , '' he said . public protest of the unequ share of the secur burden ha also been come to a head recent as the haredi draft law is advanc with no real solut in sight . the idf say that they need more manpow , the ultra - orthodox leadership ha not made concess that would allow for a bill that satisfi thi need , and the public furi over thi inequ grow with everi day that the law is not amend and that more idf soldier are kill in the israel - hama war and in israel ' s northern conflict with hezbollah . the 2025 budget may becom just anoth instanc of the govern ' s fail balanc act between coalit pressur and demand by the public to meet the need of the major of isra . thi wouldn ' t be entir new . the current govern ha alreadi been critic for how sector it alloc of fund ha been and for fail to address thi and cut coalit fund when the war necessit a rethink of the 2024 budget . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we found in thi budget , that to a much larger extent than in previou coalit agreement , coalit resourc were veri sector , & rdquo ; former bank of israel governor karnit flug told the jerusalem post last month . & ldquo ; the fact that they didn & rsquo ; t cut coalit expenditur [ after the outbreak of the war ] that are veri sector and are not base on profession work substanti undermin the trust in the govern . thi will make it much harder to come to the public and say & lsquo ; look , there is an addit burden that you will have to incur , & rsquo ; & rdquo ; explain flug . the israel - hama war ha brought the issu of the unequ burden on israel ' s differ sector , long kick down the road , to a head . given thi and the precari situat of the coalit , israel ' s budget could potenti be the next crisi that could toppl it , or bring the widespread public protest to new boil point . public trust in the govern ha been stretch and challeng possibl beyond repair sinc the outbreak of the war , and also in the year prior dure the advanc of the judici overhaul . the budget is anoth opportun for the govern to tri to show the public it is priorit the need of the mani ; or for it to show that coalit demand are the top of it list of prioriti . & nbsp ;