transport minist miri regev , who is in charg of the array of upcom state ceremoni commemor remembr day and independ day , held a brief on thursday regard the 76th torch - light ceremoni , and said that dure the ceremoni , 12 commemor torch will be lit , with the octob 7 attack at the center of the ceremoni . & nbsp ; regev detail the chang that were made for thi year ' s ceremoni , includ the fact that the torch will be lit by group and not by individu . accord to the minist , there will be no firework at thi year ' s ceremoni and the artist section will be adapt to accommod the event . the ceremoni section will be reduc , and dure the ceremoni , refer to fight in the north and south , the hostag , the evacue , the wound , the disabl , and the reservist , and the secur and rescu forc will be incorpor . the aforement ceremoni will be film in advanc and will take place without an audienc , follow consult with secur personnel . & nbsp ; '' thi year there will be no celebr like last year . it ' s hard for us to celebr dure a war and when there are 133 hostag still in hama captiv , '' regev said . & nbsp ; uncertainti of war influenc ceremoni & nbsp ; '' the task of choos torch lighter from thousand of recommend is imposs . thi year , the torch will be lit in group . '' she also announc that `` the ceremoni will be held on video , without an audienc , becaus the war is in progress and we don ' t know how the differ front will develop . '' '' we don ' t know what will happen in gaza , what will happen in rafah , how it will develop in the north , and in light of that , i want to ensur that the ceremoni will take place becaus there is no question that the ceremoni should take place like everi year , '' said regev and ad : `` i made a decis that the right thing to do is not to cancel the ceremoni , and rather film it without an audienc . '' regev clarifi that she will ask prime minist benjamin netanyahu to deliv a short record speech at the torch - light ceremoni , note `` the length and scope of the video depend on realiti . it is import to have a video of the prime minist speak of the current realiti ... '' accord to regev , thi is anchor in the regul of the ceremoni .