educ minist yoav kisch announc thursday that the israel prize ceremoni will be held dure the countri ' s 76th independ day , the first of such follow the octob 7 massacr in the citi of sderot . & nbsp ; follow the outbreak of the israel - hama war , kisch decid to hold the annual israel prize thi year as a sign of reviv , civil heroism , and mutual guarante . special recognit will be given to isra citizen who demonstr extraordinari braveri and contribut to the reviv of the state follow the outbreak of war . & nbsp ; thi year , in addit to the three award celebr isra reviv , two - lifetim achiev award , and nine award in other profession categori will be given . & nbsp ; confirm of netanyahu critic & nbsp ; the educ minist announc six addit winner . the announc also provid the first confirm of eyal waldman , an isra tech businessman , who critic prime minist netanyahu over the judici reform polici pass by the govern . kisch reportedli request that the committe that vote on the prize not give the prize to waldman . & nbsp ; the ceremoni also come after kisch ' s initi demand to cancel the ceremoni , which result in israel ' s high court request the govern to provid justif for the cancel . & nbsp ; the winner includ the follow : the israel prize in psycholog research is award to prof . gershon ben shahar . the israel prize in life scienc research is award to prof . hagai bergman . the israel prize for entrepreneurship and technolog innov is award to mr . eyal waldman . the israel prize in torah literatur and hebrew law is award to rishon lezion , the chief rabbi of israel , rabbi yitzhak yosef . the israel prize for research in mathemat , comput scienc , and comput engin is award to prof . vitali milman . the israel prize for econom research and statist research is award to prof . yaakov ritov . kisch note in hi statement that `` thi year , we will hold the israel prize ceremoni with the heroic resid of the citi of sderot . the state of israel is at war , and we cherish our soldier at the front , we rememb our hostag brother and sister , and we prais the heroism and spirit that ha pulsat in the nation sinc the dawn of histori . '' '' the israel prize is an award for isra excel , and the honor of the winner is the honor of the state of israel . unfortun , in my announc today , there were no women honore , onli men . the discret in thi matter is in the hand of the compani and member of the variou committe , and i hope that they will choos deserv women in the follow categori . '' '' the hour is the hour of war ; the order of the hour is uniti , and togeth , isra excel will face everi challeng and defeat everi enemi , '' kisch said . & nbsp ;