a 35 - year - old settler from beit el ha been arrest on suspicion of murder a palestinian boy dure settler riot that rage in the west bank last month in the aftermath of the murder of 14 - year - old isra shepherd binyamin achimair , media report on friday . sever palestinian were kill dure the riot , dure which home and car were torch in sever villag surround the area where achimair & rsquo ; s bodi wa found . riot erupt in the aftermath of the murder of 14 - year - old isra shepherd binyamin achimair in april . sever palestinian were kill dure the riot , dure which home and car in sever villag surround the area where achimair ' s bodi wa found were torch . five peopl were arrest a week ago on suspicion of riot and incit the riot . the suspect is accus of murder 17 - year - old omar ahmad abdulghani hame from the villag of beitin , just north of ramallah . after hi death , hama issu poster bear hi pictur and the word & ldquo ; our martyr the fighter . & rdquo ; the suspect ' s detailsth suspect is a marri reservist from beit el . befor the begin of hi hear , he proclaim hi innoc and call hi arrest & ldquo ; fals . & rdquo ; he accus the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) of orchestr the arrest , becaus he refus to answer question the agenc had about settler activ in the area . the suspect claim he wa not told he wa a suspect and , for that reason , did not call a lawyer until he had alreadi been arrest . the suspect claim he wa not told he wa a suspect and , for that reason , did not call a lawyer until he had alreadi been arrest . hi lawyer said the onli reason for hi arrest wa due to hi vehicl be seen drive around the area where hame wa murder . polic respond , say that initi , he wa not a suspect , but as the investig develop , he becam one . polic request that hi extens be extend for 10 day in order to allow them to conduct a full investig without interfer from the suspect . the judg gave the polic a four - day extens , mean the suspect will be releas on monday unless anoth extens is grant . give hi reason , the judg said , that & ldquo ; it appear from the materi that there is reason suspicion . the suspect maintain hi right to remain silent & ndash ; which , although it is a fundament right , ha a particular signific . & rdquo ;