the union of journalist in israel call on sunday for the commun ministri to stop & ldquo ; hunt & rdquo ; arab - speak journalist after sever were question while cover a protest in tel aviv last week . the union state that the arab - speak journalist were cover the event when inspector from the commun ministri and polic offic began question them and ask them to state what agenc they work for to ensur they didn ' t work for al - jazeera . וגם זה אתמול בהפגנה , שוטרים לוקחים לצד צוות תקשורת ערבי זר , דורשים מהם תעודות ומעכבים אותם לכמה דק של בירורים . במשטרה אומרים שזו היתה סה ״ כ שיחה ולא עיכוב או מעצר , עדים להתרחשות אומרים שהם סברו שמדובר בצוות של אל ג ׳ זירהצילום : דניאל רפפורט http : // t . co / uughgsm0bt pic . twitter . com / cdxj6s4kou & mdash ; bar peleg ( @ bar_peleg ) may 12 , 2024haaretz share footag from the scene show polic offic take asid journalist from al - arabi tv at the protest on may 11 and ask for their id . wit at the scene said that the polic offic thought the report work with al jazeera . the report were hold microphon with the symbol of al arabi . ' chill effect on the freedom of the press ' the journalist union & rsquo ; s legal advis stress in a letter to the ministri that & ldquo ; thi is prohibit conduct that impact the freedom of the press and ha a chill effect on the freedom of the press and the work of the journalist , and even an impact on the journalist & rsquo ; freedom of occup sinc onli arab - speak journalist were chosen to be check . & rdquo ; the union ad that the order that wa issu to close al jazeera doe not give the ministri & rsquo ; s inspector or the polic the author to question journalist just becaus they & rsquo ; re report in arab . the union warn that if thi practic is not stop , & ldquo ; we will be forc to proceed with the step avail to us , includ go to the court . & rdquo ; in 2023 , attack against journalist doubl compar to the year befor , with 61 attack report yearli . of the attack , 31 were conduct by secur forc , 25 were conduct by the public , and five case involv incit and threat . & nbsp ;