line of freshli plant tree . isra flag , each at a differ height on a stick abov where a tree will one day grow , fli in the wind . it & rsquo ; s been six month sinc the nova festiv massacr took place here . on each flag is print the name of one of the victim who wa kill here , or in the nearbi forest and field , dure the massacr . meanwhil , the sound of artilleri can be heard in the distanc . by thi late point in the day , the militari had alreadi announc that it wa rotat forc out of gaza . a sens of chang , note by the passag of half a year , can be felt here . time continu to pass , and each day end , but there is no closur for the famili , who are left in limbo while hama continu to hold 134 hostag . on sunday morn , famili of the nova victim gather at the site . they talk of the feel of abandon they experienc , especi from the govern ; they talk of pain , of get treatment for that pain . they spoke about how thi massacr could have been prevent , and how difficult it is to return to life . right then wa when the news broke that a mourner & rsquo ; s wreath wa sent to the famili of 19 - year - old hostag liri albag , blame the govern for the lack of a deal . the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) later said it suspect iranian forc were behind it . it wa as if the news hammer home just how deepli wrong it is that thi is still the situat six month later . how can it be that six month into the war the hostag are held just across the border from where i am stand ? gaza is not veri larg , so wherev you stand along the border , you are alway a few mile from the coast and not far from rafah . there are 134 peopl across the border ; idf unit are be withdrawn . isra citizen were promis that & ldquo ; there won & rsquo ; t be ani more hama & rdquo ; when the war wa over , and that militari pressur would lead to the releas of the hostag . from the border , it is obviou that neither ha come to pass . for me , sunday wa a return to a border i & rsquo ; ve been to mani time sinc octob 7 , as well as befor the war as well . back in 2005 , befor the disengag from gaza , i visit netzer hazani , a settlement in gaza near khan yuni . border region becam a target for hamasafterward , thi border region becam a target for hama ; rocket rain down on sderot . thi a place where there were mani war : in 2009 , 2012 , 2014 , and briefli in 2021 ; it alway carri danger . at kibbutz nirim , a resid told of threat date back to the 1970 . there wa alway a threat from gaza , but there were also time of peac and effort at coexist . the sens on sunday , at nova , is that all that is broken . the festiv ground today are made up of variou memori , like the new section of tree that will grow and an area of photo of the victim , stake in the ground so that each victim ha their area . besid the few monument , such as some bench and individu make - shift memori peopl have left , or graffiti on a concret bunker , much remain as it would have been befor the festiv . there are tree with no undergrowth ; there is a dirt road run down rout 232 , which run parallel to the border . it wa on thi dirt road , from the festiv ground to the main road , where car would have been stack up on octob 7 after the festiv organ stop the music and told everyon to run and hide . i look around among the tree and think about the thousand of peopl flee ; their desper and confus . the area is familiar to me from the mani video that came out that morn ; the bathroom where peopl hid , the bar where peopl were massacr , the field that peopl tri to drive through and flee through , the rescuer & ndash ; like the davidian & ndash ; who came and save peopl . six month later , thi conjur up the ghost of the past , the spirit that roam thi forest now . nearbi kibbutz mefalsim had almost 1 , 000 resid on octob 7 . like kfar aza , it wa a place peopl want to live . the resid in mani of these commun say that these kibbutzim were 95 % heaven and 5 % hell & ndash ; befor octob 7 . today , mani of them are empti and lack resid & ndash ; proud , peac - love peopl who were evacu . at mefalsim , there is a sign support the & ldquo ; kaplan & rdquo ; protest , the anti - netanyahu camp . these kibbutzim are proud of their heritag . in a small build hous the archiv of mefalsim , there is a photo of the bolt - action rifl acquir by the jewish state via czechoslovakia in 1948 that help defend israel . on octob 7 , the member of the secur team , use modern rifl , defend thi commun success from the terrorist . in mani case , the terrorist assign group of 30 - 40 men to attack each border commun . when they didn & rsquo ; t succeed in some place , there wa no second wave . when they did succeed , such as break into kfar aza , wave of men came from gaza to loot and murder . in sderot , terrorist shot upon entri , fire bullet at the street , target the polic station in a battl that went on for hour into the night . the build eventu burn down . resid had to hide indoor for sever day amidst fear that infiltr were still insid . eventu , the citi of 30 , 000 wa evacu . six month later , it recov a lot : mani resid return , and there were even traffic jam downtown . but the sign of war remain & ndash ; soldier stand at the citi entranc , check car . in ofakim , around 30 minut away from gaza by car , one particular neighborhood saw an intens gunfight ; more than two dozen peopl were kill in differ incid . in total , around 50 resid of the citi were kill , some in a bu for retire that wa travel to the dead sea from ofakim through sderot . the bu wa attack , and the peopl were kill . polic offic in ofakim were kill as well . in one neighborhood , the terrorist attack sever home . resid help defend the citi and eventu , the terrorist were hunt down . back on the border with nirim , the small , 240 - person commun , it is quiet , but eerili so , like a ghost town . the kibbutz minimarket ha been reopen , and the custom are mostli soldier who come over from unit station nearbi . sever green parrot inhabit a tree , appar escap pet . other former pet are wander around , includ a cat that wouldn & rsquo ; t stop follow me . wild dog had infiltr from gaza on octob 7 , follow the maraud looter . in contrast to sderot and nova , field of memori , nirim is almost desert , the burn home on one side of the kibbutz unchang sinc octob 7 , clear on octob 10 and 11 of bodi . in the background , like a whisper , ring concern about what come next in gaza , with the idf decis to pull out battalion 98 , though the militari remain steadfast in it goal , hold as a stark symbol of a lack of strategi , a symbol that haunt these road . i drive back along the 232 , the same road the terrorist would have driven on ; it is quiet today . six month ago , thi wa a road of death . no matter how much the field are full of green today , and the orchard of orang are pregnant with fruit , thi place will alway hold the massacr it wit . & nbsp ;