a power exhibit featur the person testimoni of 25 brave women who experienc the horror of octob 7th is launch at the museum of toler jerusalem in the presenc of the presid of the state of israel . museum of toler jerusalem is launch a first - of - it - kind exhibit call `` 06 : 29 - from dark to light `` , featur person testimoni of the horrif event of octob 7th . the exhibit & rsquo ; s produc , malki shem tov , is the father of omer shem tov , who ha been held captiv in gaza for over 200 day . the exhibit is aim at take visitor through the agon event experienc by the hundr of peopl who fell victim to the hama attack , hide in shelter for hour , and the one whom hama terrorist brutal murder . two mobil shelter were creat for thi exhibit , take visitor through the moment of fear civilian endur while hide from terrorist and rocket . visitor will then continu to 25 person testimoni from brave women with harrow stori . the exhibit will featur 25 virtual video testimoni in hebrew and english , film and produc by produc noam shalev . the firsthand testimoni are by women who experienc the atroc of octob 7th . women who were injur , fought terrorist , save the live of wound civilian and soldier , were taken hostag , lost their husband , lost their love one , or had a famili member taken captiv by hama . the women featuredamong the women : noam ben david , who wa serious injur at the nova festiv ; ricarda louk , mother of the late shani louk , who wa murder at the nova festiv ; avit schindler , whose husband wa serious injur by hama terrorist who broke into their home in kibbutz kerem shalom ; miriam beit talmi , a holocaust survivor from kibbutz zikim who wa rescu under fire ; chen almog goldstein from kfar gaza , who wa taken captiv into gaza with her children after her daughter and husband were murder in their home ; mali shoshana , the command of the sderot polic station on that saturday ; tal hayon , a nurs in soroka hospit who treat hundr of wound civilian and soldier on that day ; lt . col . or ben yehuda , command of the karak battalion on the egyptian border who fought against dozen of terrorist in the gaza envelop ; linor attia , a unit hatzalah medic , among other . in the last part of the exhibit , a seri of clip shot by produc kobi sit will present the solidar of the isra public who came togeth on octob 7th and the month follow . each clip wa creat to ignit a light of hope in the dark and remind us that even in the most difficult time , there is good in the world . thi exhibit is an import addit to the museum of toler jerusalem ' s overal narr , which aim to highlight braveri , uniti , and heroism alongsid the deep sorrow of octob 7th and the war that follow . isaac herzog , presid of the state of israel , said , `` for far too mani month , week , and day , the light ha been block by the dark shadow of a cloudi sky . and even though the sun seem to keep shine , we wake up to thi cruel dark each morn , which stay with us throughout the day . in thi harsh realiti , thi import exhibit in the museum of toler bring such a preciou and import voic that must be heard loud and clear . & rdquo ; yoni riss , ceo of the museum of toler jerusalem , ad , `` the testimoni present in the exhibit are a win proof of the strength the citizen demonstr on octob 7th . alongsid the great dark , the shock , and the sorrow , the great light of isra societi ha been reveal . the volunt , the fighter , the rescu team , and the defens forc ralli and demonstr solidar , which gave us hope for the futur . with courag and kind , the isra and the jewish peopl found the strength to rebuild , rise , contribut , help , lend a hand , and not give in to evil . the endless give that will build a better futur here grow out of the pain and grief . & rdquo ;