over the weekend , the idf scour the west bank for the palestinian terrorist that moder injur one 18 - year - old hesder yeshiva student when he fire at the carmel settlement in the south hebron hill the night befor . it wa the second signific terror attack in the west bank involv isra civilian in the last two week and come amid a spike in such incid . seven isra were injur when terrorist fire on a bu in the jordan valley . on thursday , at least one palestinian shooter fire at the settlement from an open area near carmel , hit a pre - armi religi seminari for young men call reuta , also known as a hesder yeshiva . the bullet pierc the door , hit a student and startl the room & rsquo ; s occup , who had not understood until that moment that they were under attack . ' we didn ' t realiz we were in a shoot incid ' the yeshiva & rsquo ; s rabbi natan ofner explain to kan new that he and other were studi in the build when they heard a veri loud nois . when one of the room & rsquo ; s occup went out to check what wa go on , & ldquo ; we didn & rsquo ; t see anyth . then we heard anoth nois . in hindsight , we realiz it wa gunshot that hit the door of the women & rsquo ; s section , & rdquo ; ofner said . at the time , ofner said , the group thought someth had fallen . he and a student went to investig and return becaus everyth seem fine . then , they heard three & ldquo ; veri loud explos & rdquo ; that sound veri close , follow by a volley of gunfir that penetr the door near where they were stand . & ldquo ; we still didn & rsquo ; t realiz that we were in a shoot incid [ until ] the student saw he wa soak in blood , then everyon realiz what wa go on . & rdquo ; the student enter a protect space and & ldquo ; we call the armi , which arriv quickli , & rdquo ; ofner said . in the meantim , the shoot continu until the armi arriv , he ad . the student wa taken to a hospit , where he underw surgeri to remov the bullet fragment and ofner said he wa expect to recov quickli . separ . the jerusalem coordin for the religi zionist parti elhanan wolff who wa drive in the area said hi vehicl wa hit by the same gunfir , but that he wa unscath . the shooter wa use an automat rifl , he said . immedi after the attack , resid of the small carmel settlement were ask to stay in their home . earlier thi week maj . bar falah , 30 , wa kill as he stop arm palestinian from infiltr into sovereign israel through the secur barrier .