shavuot is one of the most celebr holiday among the kibbutzim , express through live process showcas their agricultur pride , danc , and sing . while dozen of kibbutzim celebr the holiday on tuesday , incess siren in the north disrupt resid ' festiv . in kibbutz kfar szold , locat about 5 kilomet from the lebanon border , celebr wore white attir as is customari on shavuot . amidst joy music , incess siren blare , and the sky fill with missil and rocket . the disson wa evid , especi in the surreal sight of laugh children . '' like firework , how beauti , '' they exclaim , show awe amidst the chao . celebr of all age seem almost indiffer to the turmoil abov , remain in place , document , film , and laugh at the somewhat eeri display in the sky . the situat wa entir differ when look at kibbutz neot mordechai . while festiv also took place there , resid also dress in white . the sound of siren and the numer explos in the sky caus everyon to run in hysteria and fear . parent search for their children , shout their name . panick cri of `` mom , dad `` echo everywher . the uncanni sight of missil and rocket in the sky chang the holiday atmospher in a matter of moment . shavuot festiv amidst threat `` we all gather as a famili in kibbutz amir at my brother ' s hous after the tradit celebr in the kibbutz dine room , '' share yoram even - zur , a member of the upper galile region council . `` on the way there , the siren began blare . the rocket amidst the festiv underscor the import of live in the galile . we ' ve been live here under a tangibl threat for eight month alreadi . '' about 250 , 000 peopl particip on tuesday , with the same number of particip expect on wednesday , in celebr shavuot in the kibbutzim . all ceremoni featur call for the return of the hostag . dozen of displac celebr the holiday in border kibbutzim , despit hama & rsquo ; attack on israel on octob 7 , where resid from 56 kibbutzim in the western negev and northern border reloc to hotel and temporari accommod . shavuot is a major holiday at the kibbutzim , mark by gather on central lawn and watch the tradit parad . alongsid the usual white festiv attir , thi year , yellow wa ad - the color of the famili ' campaign for the releas of the hostag . a unifi call resound to approv the ' netanyahu deal ' to bring the hostag home . even in metula , a tradit process took place . unlik previou year , onli the remain student of the preparatori class rode decor tractor , symbol hope for the return of the hostag from gaza , alongsid two katyusha rocket from lebanon that hit two home the night befor .