statist have shown that onli 13 percent of ultra - orthodox youth of conscript age neither studi nor work , 39 percent onli work , and 19 studi and work . final , onli 29 percent meet the requir of torah studi . thi is accord to a report by a team commiss by the defens ministri to examin the integr of ultra - orthodox youth into the idf . the team wa appoint by defens minist yoav gallant and head by former command of the israel air forc , maj .- gen . ( re . ) eliez shkedi , with the goal of examin the possibl of integr and rais the number of ultra - orthodox recruit to the idf . the israel - hama war led to an increas of ultra - orthodox draft to the idf . a signific jump in the number of recruit wa regist in the last recruit cycl in may , where 250 ultra - orthodox enlist as combat soldier in the paratroop , givati , and netzah yehuda infantri brigad , and for the first time , in the border polic ( magav ) . anoth hundr enlist as combat support soldier . follow the ongo war in gaza and tension along the northern border , and in light of addit secur challeng such as the west bank , the iranian threat , the syrian front , and distant front in iraq and yemen , the idf need a massiv increas in manpow in the idf . the team , led by maj .- gen . shkedi , compil a report with 15 section to be implement to increas the number of recruit . `` we got the impress that there is a desir among the ultra - orthodox to contribut . there is a profound chang in attitud . there is tremend potenti to advanc the issu of recruit the ultra - orthodox popul to enlist in variou recruit rout for the idf , '' said shkedi . among the section that promot the scope of recruit is the open of all system in the idf for the benefit of recruit ultra - orthodox in all branch and unit . `` our motto must be ' we want you , we need you , and we respect you , ' '' shkedi state . he further elabor , `` we decid on a maximum number of posit for all age . we do not want to send the ultra - orthodox recruit straight to the militari rabbin . we need to creat an open grade . and we will do everyth to not chang their lifestyl . '' report offer solut and adjust for ultra - orthodox enlist & nbsp ; one of the section in the report deal with the fact that action must be taken to make militari servic access to ultra - orthodox youth , among other thing , by open short - term preparatori program of between two week and a month . two such preparatori school have alreadi been open with the jewish agenc and there is a plan to open dozen of similar preparatori program . it wa also decid to chang the screen at the recruit offic and adjust it for the ultra - orthodox , such as adjust the aptitud and other test that mani in thi group are not technolog suffici to conduct . anoth aspect is to ensur that these aptitud and placement test are not administ by femal soldier , as well as make variou adjust on base . anoth section deal with the construct of servic track for combat support , with an emphasi on unit such as intellig , air forc , and the navi . it wa also decid to make inform access on the internet to learn about all the track that stand befor them in the idf . at the same time , there wa a recommend to establish a special director in the defens ministri for the issu of encourag the recruit of the ultra - orthodox popul into the idf , as well as appoint a special advis to the idf chief of staff for ultra - orthodox affair , similar to the advis for women and gender affair . defens minist yoav gallant , in respons to the report , state , `` thank you to maj .- gen . eliez shkedi , for import and groundbreak action on expand the rank of the idf and strengthen israel ' s secur . togeth with the dedic team and in cooper with the chief of staff and the director gener of the defens ministri , we brought good news to the peopl of israel and in particular to member of the ultra - orthodox sector - the possibl to enlist in ani unit in the idf and preserv their way of life . & rdquo ; '' alreadi in decemb 2023 , the team began it work , in order to bring about a signific recruit of ultra - orthodox , start with the upcom recruit cycl . thi is good news for the isra public - the secur establish will continu to support ani effort that will lead to the expans of it rank . in the day when the idf is fight in seven arena , near and far , in order to maintain israel ' s secur and deal with it need , we must make sure that everyon who is need can join , thi is a real oper need and a necessari and vital action . '' '' thank to the team member for purpos and effici work , i am confid that the thousand of ultra - orthodox who seek to serv in the idf will receiv adequ treatment in accord with their lifestyl and will be abl to contribut their part to the secur of the countri . the entir secur system and the idf in particular will studi the report and it recommend in depth , and will shortli formul a comprehens work plan to implement the conclus , '' gallant ' s statement conclud .