the idf demolish the home of the terrorist from yabad , near jenin , who kill five isra in a shoot attack in bnei brak on march 29 , palestinian media report . resid began to riot , includ throw stone , burn tire , throw firebomb at soldier and shoot . idf forc respond with live fire , & nbsp ; and two palestinian die in ensu clash . initi , one palestinian wa kill and at least six other were injur by the live fire from isra forc , accord to palestinian report . palestinian media publish a photo of the man ' s firearm after he wa kill . the palestinian health ministri then announc on thursday morn that one of the wound palestinian , bilal kabha , eventu die as a result of hi injuri . صور | آثار الدمار في منزل الشهيد ضياء حمارشة عقب تفجيره من قبل جيش الاحتلال في بلدة يعبد جنوب جنين . pic . twitter . com / x90agz8gdh & mdash ; حسن اصليح | hassan ( @ hassaneslayeh ) june 2 , 2022in may , the high court of justic reject the petit of the famili of the terrorist against the plan demolit of their home , although the ground floor will not be demolish sinc it wa not proven that the terrorist live there . the bnei brak attackyaakov shalom , rabbi avishai yehezk , victor sorokopot , dimitri mitrik and polic offic amir khouri were murder by dia hamarsheh in a shoot attack in bnei brak in late march . & nbsp ; hamarsheh wa jail for six month in 2013 for deal in illeg firearm and affili with a terrorist group , and had work illeg at a construct site in the citi . after a number of hi rel were arrest shortli after the attack , hi father told kan news that he `` didn ' t notic anyth unusu `` & nbsp ; about hi son & nbsp ; befor the attack . '' we are not to blame for thi stori ; what they ' re do now is collect punish . '' father of bnei brak terrorist dia hamarsheh `` if i had seen a preliminari sign that he wa go to carri out a terrorist attack , i would not have let him leav the hous , '' & nbsp ; the terrorist ' s father said . `` i would not let him think in that direct if i knew ; no one want hi son to die . we are not to blame for thi stori ; what they ' re do now is collect punish . '' clash also broke out later wednesday night in the dahaysh refuge camp near bethlehem , accord to palestinian report . & nbsp ;