iron dome alway had a weak . it shot down 85 % - 90 % of hama rocket in past round of battl & ndash ; and that wa out of the one which were project to land in popul area . as long as the volum of rocket hama could shoot in a singl salvo wa small , thi wa almost a hermet defens . but isra intellig and nation secur offici had long warn that hezbollah had a suffici number of rocket to pound the jewish state with over 1 , 000 rocket in a day , an amount that could pierc the iron dome shield . thi wa one reason the idf ha been so care when it came to hezbollah . the terror group ha 150 , 000 or more rocket , includ hundr of advanc one , which mean that 1 , 000 per day wouldn & rsquo ; t even dent it arsen . ha hama now found it own way to undermin iron dome ? dure the 2014 gaza war , hama fire almost 4 , 000 rocket , but that wa spread out over 50 day . it usual fire dozen of rocket in a day at most , and spread them out over the day . it high wa around 200 rocket spread over a whole day & ndash ; and out of the 50 day of the war , it fire more than 100 rocket per day for onli around two week . also , the vast major of these rocket were fire at the gaza corridor sinc hama had a limit number of rocket capabl of reach tel aviv and other area . for more on rocket attack against israel & nbsp ; read here for more on isra strike on gaza & nbsp ; read here for more on live rocket attack updat & nbsp ; read here for more on riot in israel & nbsp ; read here for more on world reaction to gaza violenc & nbsp ; read here & nbsp ; but on tuesday and wednesday morn , hama appear to succeed in fire more than 100 rocket within minut , includ a sizabl number focus on tel aviv . thi is a jump both in the number of rocket be use against tel aviv , and in the terrorist group & rsquo ; s abil to fire a high volum of rocket simultan . thi is an abil that hezbollah wa known to have , but wa thought to be some time away still for hama . doe thi mean the iron dome is no longer effect ? no . it still intercept the major of rocket fire at isra popul center although some are get through . the bigger question is whether isra intellig estim are correct that hama ha onli a few hundr missil which can reach tel aviv . if those estim are accur , then hama may have use up a larg chunk of that arsen , even if it ha thousand more which can hit beersheba , ashdod and commun near the gaza border . but if hama ha more of those longer - rang rocket , thi could impact israel & rsquo ; s plan for thi round of violenc and especi the question of how long it want it to last . if hama can pierc the missil shield with 100 rocket in a few minut twice in one day , how much more damag can hezbollah and iran do with the longer , larger and more accur missil it possess ? isra decis - maker and militari strategist will need to take thi into account in decid how long thi can go on for and how quickli they will need to either escal with a ground offens to reduc hama rocket fire ( clearli the idf & rsquo ; s extens bomb on tuesday did not succeed in that suffici ) or to find it way to a ceasefir more quickli and make new plan for the next round . the idf will also need to rethink the speed with which it will need to move in a conflict with hezbollah , let alon iran .