the arm wing of hama , izz al - din al - qassam brigad , publish on tuesday a dog tag it claim it member snatch from an idf soldier dure the 2014 oper protect edg with israel . the group did not provid further detail about the dog tag , which carri the name of the givati brigad . & ldquo ; we won & rsquo ; t talk much about thi tag ; the command of the enemi & rsquo ; s armi know well who thi tag belong to , & rdquo ; the group said . & nbsp ; the public of the dog tag came on the ninth anniversari of the abduct of idf soldier hadar goldin dure the oper . the al - qassam brigad said goldin wa & ldquo ; captur & rdquo ; on the 26th day of the war in the southern gaza strip . & nbsp ; idf st .- sgt . oron shaul ' s bodi wa also kidnap in a separ attack dure the 2014 oper . hama is also hold isra civilian avera mengistu and hisham al - say captiv in gaza . the incid in which goldin wa kidnap , accord to the hama arm wing , took place at dawn on august 1 , 2014 . & ldquo ; the enemi forc , take advantag of talk about a suppos humanitarian ceasefir , penetr at night more than two kilomet east of rafah ( in the southern gaza strip ) , where they were ambush by our fighter , & rdquo ; it ad . hama releas addit detail about the ambush on goldin and hi fellow soldiersa hama terrorist who took part in the ambush on the givati soldier told the palestin now news agenc on tuesday that as the soldier near the ambush , hama terrorist walid masoud jump from the top of a structur onto the signal offic of the givati soldier and kill him in order to cut off contact between the soldier and their command . the al - qassam brigad terrorist ad that the group of hama terrorist had wait in hide for day befor the ambush . the terrorist did not address the kidnap of goldin . hama also re - publish photo it claim show goldin ' s tavor rifl on tuesday . the photo were first publish by the terrorist movement in decemb . at the time of the releas of the photo in decemb , the leader of the hama movement in gaza , yahya sinwar , state dure a ceremoni that hama ha been hold & ldquo ; secret negoti & rdquo ; with israel concern the captiv it hold in gaza . the terrorist movement is demand the releas of all prison rearrest after be releas in the shalit deal and all femal , minor , sick and elderli prison , as well ani bodi be held by israel , accord to sinwar . & ldquo ; we will give the occup a limit time to complet thi deal , otherwis we will close the file of the four soldier forev , and we will find anoth way to liber our prison , god will , & rdquo ; said sinwar at the time . mengistu and al - say are both civilian , but hama refer to them as soldier . goldin famili continu campaign for the return of the captiveslast month , goldin ' s famili protest against govern repres at a memori ceremoni for oper protect edg , with goldin ' s mother , leah , state she would immol herself if that ' s what it would take to bring her son ' s bodi home . `` [ prime minist benjamin ] netanyahu , [ benni ] gantz , [ defens minist yoav ] gallant , [ idf chief of staff ] herzi [ halevi ] , what do you want ? do you want me to immol myself ? no problem . i ' ll immol myself like itzik saidan . that ' s what open your eye to deal with wound veteran , so it ' s about time that you open your eye to deal with the captiv and their famili . i have no problem immol myself , i just need to choos the right time and place . is that the onli way you ' ll understand ? is thi your languag ? it doesn ' t scare me , '' said leah goldin ahead of the ceremoni . as netanyahu left the ceremoni , ayelet goldin , hadar ' s sister , shout toward him `` benjamin netanyahu , look a bereav sister in the eye . you ' ve been prime minist for nine year . don ' t turn your back on me . what is there in the grave for nine year ? tzitzit and a bloodi uniform and my brother , whole and beauti , is wallow in gaza . you know exactli where he is . you are guilti , prime minist , your hand bear the respons . judaism and israel are our valu , what are your valu , prime minist ? you are abandon soldier and civilian . '' tzvi joffr contribut to thi report .