peac now and jordan valley activist have file a petit to the high court for the evict of mosh sharvit & rsquo ; s outpost follow the intern sanction impos against him , the two organ announc last week . & nbsp ; the organ demand that the state enforc demolit order against the structur in the illeg outpost , which is name & ldquo ; mosh & rsquo ; s farm & rdquo ; or & ldquo ; emek tirzah farm . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; the organ charg that sinc it establish , the outpost ha been a hub of violenc and harass against palestinian shepherd commun . peac now is an isra organ dedic to promot a two - state solut to solv the conflict between isra and palestinian . & ldquo ; settler violenc in these agricultur outpost is not a bug , it & rsquo ; s a featur . the govern support these outpost , nurtur them , and allow them to seiz land and expel palestinian resid from the entir area . the govern doe noth to stop these crime , and it & rsquo ; s time for the court to compel it to enforc the law , & rdquo ; peac now assert . & nbsp ; peac now claim that some palestinian famili were forc to flee their home due to threat and harass from the outpost & rsquo ; s resid . & nbsp ; recent , the unit state , the unit kingdom , and canada have impos sanction on the farm and it founder , mosh sharvit . & nbsp ; respons to intern sanctionsin respons to the sanction , sharvit told the right - wing news organ , arutz sheva & ndash ; israel nation new , & ldquo ; if britain ha recogn my endeavor , who am i to say anyth ? when the nation of the world focu on a specif point , it seem that thi is a sign that we must take action and increas it . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; he then ad , & ldquo ; whoever choos to harm us is commit a person action , and i believ that thi is an anti - jewish act . these sanction were impos not onli on me but also on harel , a soldier who fell heroic for the land of israel and the peopl of israel . & rdquo ; he is refer to capt . ( re . ) harel sharvit , hi brother , who fell in gaza . & ldquo ; mosh sharvit repeatedli harass , threaten , and attack palestinian civilian and isra human right defend in the vicin of mosh farm , an outpost in the west bank , & rdquo ; the us state depart said in a statement , explain whi sharvit and hi farm have been sanction . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; in octob 2023 , sharvit issu a threat against the resid of the palestinian villag of ein shibli , and while arm , order them to leav their home ; thi threat result in up to 100 palestinian civilian flee their villag in fear for their live , & rdquo ; the statement ad . & nbsp ; mosh sharvit establish an agricultur farm in the jordan valley , approxim 1 . 5 kilomet southeast of the hamra commun . in 2021 , the civil administr issu a demolit order for all the structur built without permit or approv build plan . despit the order , the farm continu to expand , and as of 2024 , it includ a guest lodg for travel and an event complex , indic that the outpost make a profit from tourism . accord to it websit , the farm can accommod up to 100 peopl . & nbsp ; an organ titl the jordan valley activist group , compos of isra volunt ha begun accompani palestinian shepherd and document attack against them to have evid for the polic . & nbsp ; the jordan valley activist group claim it ha hundr of incid of harass and violenc by the farm resid and ha file dozen of complaint to the polic . & nbsp ;