interior minist mosh arbel of sha is unlik mani other isra politician . for one thing , he doesn & rsquo ; t particularli want to be a politician , and doesn & rsquo ; t have higher polit aspir . if it were up to him , he would be far from the public eye , work on hi doctor in law or spend time with hi famili . for anoth , at the outbreak of the israel - hama war on octob 7 , arbel request of parti leader mk ary deri to reliev him of the dual duti of interior minist and health minist and leav him just with the former , due to the immens workload of run these two major ministri dure wartim . power and influenc are currenc for politician , and who els in israel & rsquo ; s polit scene today volunt to give up a major ministri ? & ldquo ; i see myself in the polit arena as a reservist and not a career offic , & rdquo ; arbel said . hi use of militari jargon is also rare for a haredi politician & ndash ; inde , arbel serv in the idf and in the reserv for year until he becam a member of knesset . he said he is & ldquo ; not motiv by surviv , & rdquo ; and that it doe not matter to him whether he serv anoth term in polit or not . as a result , he is focus not on reap short - term achiev but & ldquo ; prepar the ministri & rsquo ; s foundat & rdquo ; so that , when he & ldquo ; hand the key over & rdquo ; to hi successor , the ministri will be better than it is now . & ldquo ; the state of israel need peopl who enter public role with modesti and with the understand that they have not conquer territori but are there to serv the public , & rdquo ; he said . mosh arbel ' s polit , rabbin , and idf careerarbel , 40 , is a father of four and live in petah tikva . public servic run in the famili , as hi father serv on the petah tikva religi council and wa a sha activist . but arbel himself wa a full - time torah student until hi mid - twenti , and wa ordain as a rabbi . he then join the idf home front command in a unit respons for identifi corps ; earn bachelor & rsquo ; s and master & rsquo ; s degre in law from the ono academ colleg ; serv in the idf reserv as a militari prosecutor ; earn a busi administr certif from harvard univers ; and began a doctor in law at reichman univers . follow the 2013 nation elect , arbel serv as a legal advis for sha , as a legisl advis to then knesset member and current labor minist yoav ben - tzur , and as a chief of staff for deri . in april 2023 he wa appoint as both health minist and interior minist , after deri wa block from the posit due to previou crimin convict . the jerusalem post interview arbel in hi knesset offic on april 8 , and the first issu to be discuss wa the ongo crisi over the haredi exempt from idf servic . as both a longtim haredi yeshiva student and a long - serv idf reservist , arbel & rsquo ; s perspect is import . hi approach can be summar as follow : the idf ha a real need for soldier , and haredi men who do not studi torah full - time should commit to idf or other nation servic . at the same time , torah studi isn & rsquo ; t just a spiritu vocat but an enterpris of nation import . arbel call thi & ldquo ; the nation stori of a group of torah student ... who labor day and night over the torah , & rdquo ; out of which will grow & ldquo ; great torah [ scholar ] with broad shoulder . & rdquo ; accord to arbel , these & ldquo ; broad - shoulder & rdquo ; talent are necessari in order to uphold the tradit of & ldquo ; the power of lenienc , & rdquo ; a lead polici in the halach rule of former sephardi chief rabbi and sha spiritu leader rabbi ovadia yosef . & ldquo ; the day where we enter the debat with the deep understand that there is a nation , ethic duti to maintain these torah student , along with the duti to maintain an econom , militari , and social prosper state , we can creat an ecosystem of understand that doe not wish to eras the ident of the other side , & rdquo ; arbel said . thi fundament premis is more import than the detail of a specif haredi conscript plan , he ad . furthermor , arbel argu that enabl haredi men to serv in the idf while maintain their lifestyl is a liber valu as well & ndash ; idf servic isn & rsquo ; t just a duti , it is also a right . the idf current doe thi & ldquo ; suffici & rdquo ; and should continu do so , he said . he stress that yeshiva student who were not actual studi and who were & ldquo ; catch a ride & rdquo ; on the blanket exempt should serv in the idf like all other citizen . arbel & rsquo ; s approach regard torah studi and idf servic reflect a broader view on haredi educ in gener . he explain that the major haredi school system teach a core secular curriculum of some form , but that thi need to be expand and improv . hi son , for exampl , studi at a haredi high school yeshiva , which combin long hour of torah studi with full matricul exam . there are mani such initi sprout up , and & ldquo ; good thing are happen & rdquo ; & ndash ; but the state need to facilit thi & ndash ; for exampl , by lower the high cost of the institut that offer these sort of combin . arbel didn & rsquo ; t rule out give haredi teen the option of studi torah full - time . he himself studi onli torah in hi teen and complet matricul requir later on , and the year of torah studi grant him a work ethic and analyt skill that serv him later on in life . but such a system is not appropri for everyon and should not be forc on haredi teen who aren & rsquo ; t equip for it , he argu . arbel & rsquo ; s work in the interior ministri ha garner prais from both side of the polit divid , and the ministri wa favor mention for it work follow the octob 7 hama massacr . ask about thi , arbel wa quick to give credit to the ministri worker . he explain that the ministri includ three branch and describ it adapt post - octob 7 in each branch . these chang led to a learn process that led to broader initi not just relat to war . the three branch are the local author ; immigr and citizenship ; and urban plan and develop . follow octob 7 , the local author requir receiv special power and fund , especi those whose resid were attack and / or evacu . on the issu of immigr and citizenship , mani of these evacue left their home without their passport or other identif paper , and the ministri creat roam emerg offic that went to hotel in order to provid servic for the evacue . final , on the issu of urban plan and develop , arbel had the ministri pass temporari execut order to cut bureaucraci in order to speedili construct new school and medic center for the evacue . in the day and week after the massacr , some of the survivor were traumat to the extent that they were not will to leav their hotel room in order to meet with the roam immigr offic . thi led arbel to wonder whi they could not order new document onlin , and he work with the defens and other author to begin provid thi servic , whose pilot is set to begin at the end of april . wait time in israel for immigr servic such as renew a passport are notori long , and the abil to order a new passport onlin could drastic improv thi . the idea to enabl onlin document order wa an exampl of how the ministri & rsquo ; s ad hoc adapt to war need led to broader initi , arbel explain . he said he also put a specif emphasi on servic to arab municip . & ldquo ; on the day i enter offic i said that we must understand that we are public servant of all of the citizen of israel & ndash ; those who vote for us and those who didn & rsquo ; t , even those who are act against us , & rdquo ; arbel said . he ad that at a certain point when there were protest outsid of hi home , he said to hi children that he is happi to live in a countri in which peopl can protest outsid the home of elect offici , which is not to be taken for grant . deal with arab municip includ uniqu challeng & ndash ; a major one , for exampl , wa financ minist bezalel smotrich refus in 2023 to channel ni 200 million of fund due to the concern that it could end up in the hand of crimin organ . arbel confront smotrich and succeed in get the fund through . in some rare case , there were also manag problem , such as certain famili who won the municip elect refus to provid servic to other famili . arbel ad that & ldquo ; good thing & rdquo ; are happen in arab local author , cite as an exampl the town jatt near haifa , which elect in the recent municip elect a young engin who is unaffili with larg famili . thi show that resid understand the import of proper govern aim first and foremost at improv their daili live . arbel view local author as key factor in bridg social gap . & ldquo ; the goal of local author is to break through cement ceil , & rdquo ; he said . socioeconom gap in israel are unaccept high for a countri the size of a district in california , and correct invest by municip , such as in fundament aspect of formal and inform educ & ndash ; schoolroom , teacher , hot meal , etc . & ndash ; could serv as the basi for real social mobil , which arbel said is & ldquo ; one of the most signific tool in our nation resili . & rdquo ; the war between russia and ukrain and the rise in antisemit worldwid sinc octob 7 ha led to increas interest by diaspora jew in move to israel . anoth notabl initi that arbel mention wa creat an & ldquo ; aliyah elig document . & rdquo ; what happen , arbel explain , is that potenti olim sometim express interest in move to israel but do not follow through with the process , such that if they want to renew it later on they will have to start afresh . instead , arbel propos enabl these famili to complet all of the necessari paperwork without actual make the move & ndash ; and thu enabl them to make aliyah immedi in the futur if they wish . arbel prefer not to express hi view on the situat in gaza and the public debat about how much israel should conced in a hostag deal . but perhap more import than hi work in the interior ministri and hi support of haredi enlist is hi sympathi for the famili of the hostag . he said he is concern by critic that minist had not met enough with the famili of hostag sinc the war broke out , and said that he meet at least onc a week with a famili . the meet are difficult , and the famili are experienc immens pain and anger , but as a govern minist arbel said he doe not have the right to avoid the famili . he ad that he & ldquo ; allow himself to cri with the famili , & rdquo ; and that hi moral duti is & ldquo ; first and foremost to see their pain . & rdquo ; & nbsp ;