two isra were murder on sunday in a terrorist shoot attack in the town of huwara in the northern west bank . the victim were brother hillel menachem and yigal ya & rsquo ; acov yaniv . the search for the terrorist wa ongo at press time . the terrorist use a car to ram into an isra vehicl that wa drive through the town and then shot the two passeng at close rang . the terrorist escap from the scene . the brother were resid of the har bracha settlement in samaria , near nablu . hillel had just complet hi servic in the isra navi . '' it can not be that in the light of day , terrorist allow themselv to shoot innoc civilian , the insol of terror prove that there is no deterr . '' samaria region council head yossi daganmagen david adom paramed gil bismuth , who arriv at the scene , said he and hi colleagu & ldquo ; saw the two wound men lie near the vehicl unconsci . along with an idf medic team , we gave them initi medic treatment in the field , put them in militari intens - care vehicl , and they were evacu to the hospit in critic condit . & rdquo ; prime minist benjamin netanyahu said : & ldquo ; we will continu to act by all mean necessari , with secur , oper activ and with legisl , to deter the terrorist and maintain israel & rsquo ; s secur . defens minist yoav gallant direct the secur forc & rsquo ; oper and intellig unit to focu their effort on catch the terrorist , use all mean necessari , includ preemptiv strike , to prevent futur attack . he also approv temporarili expand the number of forc in the west bank to better blanket the area . the meet led by gallant includ idf chief of staff lt .- gen . herzi halevi , shin bet director ronen bar , oc idf intellig corp maj .- gen . aharon hulia , defens ministri director - gener eyal zamir and other . halevi had made calm the west bank situat one of hi top prioriti lead into ramadan next month , both to avoid a full - fledg intifada and to be abl to eventu reposit hi forc back to the northern and southern front , which present greater long - term threat . after a meet among idf central command , the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) and the border polic on sunday even , it wa decid to intensifi checkpoint around nablu and to reinforc secur forc throughout samaria . israel polic insp .- gen . kobi shabtai extend hi condol to the famili . west bank region head call on gov ' t to ' move from defens to offens ' & ldquo ; we are in a veri sensit situat , and it requir all of us to be on full oper alert , so i request that all offic check readi in their unit and make sure that all polic offic are prepar , & rdquo ; he said in a statement shortli after the attack . & ldquo ; the israel polic have enter maximum alert to be at a full level of oper instruct . & rdquo ; samaria region council head yossi dagan call on the govern to & ldquo ; chang the paradigm and move from defens to offens . it can not be that in the light of day , terrorist allow themselv to shoot innoc civilian . the insol of terror prove that there is no deterr . the peopl of israel and the resid of samaria are strong . we will not break in the face of the murder terror of the palestinian author . & rdquo ; beit el mayor shai alon , who wa in a car ahead of the victim , said : & ldquo ; the shoot happen right behind me . it look terribl & ndash ; it wa gunshot [ at ] point - blank [ rang ] . you are surround from the left and right side ; there is no way to escap . it can not be that terrorist can possess weapon so easili and to freeli fire [ on isra civilian ] point blank in broad daylight . & rdquo ; the terrorist attack show that there is & ldquo ; a total lack of control in judea and samaria , that the threat ... is wors than ever befor & rdquo ; and that israel must declar an & ldquo ; all - out war & rdquo ; to restor secur , he said . opposit leader yair lapid extend condol to the famili of the victim and said he ha & ldquo ; full trust that the secur forc will catch the murder . & rdquo ; '' the resist in the west bank will remain present and escal , and no plan or summit will be abl to stop it . '' hama spokesman hazem qassampalestinian hand out sweet in nablu , jenin and the gaza strip shortli after the attack in celebr . two jew were murder in a shoot by # palestinian terrorist today . thi is how palestinian in the west bank respond . thi cultur of hate start with distribut sweet . it end with innoc be butcher . pic . twitter . com / ggre1z7o9a & mdash ; israel ישראל ( @ israel ) februari 26 , 2023hama spokesman hazem qassam call the terrorist attack a & ldquo ; natur reaction to the occup & rsquo ; s crime & rdquo ; and that & ldquo ; the resist in the west bank would remain present and escal , and no plan or summit will be abl to stop it . & rdquo ; hour after the attack , settler torch palestinian hous and clash with palestinian in and near huwara . footag from huwara taken shortli after the attack show a hous belong to a local palestinian on fire , reportedli after it wa torch by settler . later in the even , settler torch anoth hous . accord to initi report , the resid of the second hous were still in the build when it wa torch , and their condit wa unclear . dozen of isra arriv in the area of huwara to protest on sunday even , as mosqu in huwara publish messag call on palestinian to confront settler , burn tire after they enter the town . footag show a larg fire amid the clash . palestinian vehicl in the town were torch by settler dure the demonstr , while a hous in asira al - qibliya , northwest of huwara , wa torch by settler as well , accord to palestinian report . palestinian media report said settler near salfit had thrown stone at palestinian vehicl . accord to the palestinian red crescent , 98 palestinian were injur in huwara , includ one who wa stab , one who wa assault with an iron rod and mani other who suffer from tear - ga inhal . three palestinian ambul were reportedli attack and damag . aqaba secur summitth attack came just hour after isra media outlet report that the defens establish had decid to reduc oper in the west bank in an effort to calm the situat ahead of ramadan . israel , the pa , egypt , jordan and the us are hold a summit in aqaba to tri and calm tension in the region . the summit ha drawn widespread condemn from palestinian faction , with media affili with hama call it & ldquo ; a prelud to elimin the resist of the west bank at the hand of palestinian . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; the fascist zionist govern is suffer from intern polit fractur . we oppos the summit in aqaba and see it as shame . we salut the resist fighter who fight against israel & rsquo ; s crime . all attempt to destroy resist will fail . & rdquo ; yanal phriha & rsquo ; atjordanian parliament member yanal phriha & rsquo ; at welcom the terrorist attack , say , & ldquo ; the fascist zionist govern is suffer from intern polit fractur . we oppos the summit in aqaba and see it as shame . we salut the resist fighter who fight against israel & rsquo ; s crime . all attempt to destroy resist will fail . & rdquo ; follow the attack , financ minist bezalel smotrich call on the isra deleg in aqaba to return to israel . de - escal & ldquo ; would onli be achiev when the idf strike the terrorist citi and brigad without merci , & rdquo ; he said .