recent , there ha been a flood of request for monetari help on seriou health issu ; widow mother of larg famili left destitut ; a haredi man who naiv agre to put an extra parcel in hi luggag , not know that it contain cocain , is languish in prison , with hi wife claim that he is die there ; and a whole bunch of other request for aid . most are truli heartbreak , but they rais certain doubt . in nearli all case , they appear to be from member of haredi commun . they are written in perfect english , even though they come from peopl who supposedli learn minim english at school . the person address of the sender is omit , so there & rsquo ; s no way to check the authent of the stori , which make receiv of such messag & ndash ; some of which come at the rate of three or four a day & ndash ; feel guilti when the request is to save the life of a babi with a brain tumor or a sever heart problem . but the one that realli arous suspicion are post from bride who , on the day befor the wed , still don & rsquo ; t have the money to purchas a wed dress , let alon refresh for the guest . first of all , in haredi and also non - haredi circl , there & rsquo ; s a tradit charit outlet call a gemah ( an abbrevi of gemilut hassadim , mean give chariti , do good deed ) which provid wed dress and formal wear free of charg , or at a symbol rental cost to all and sundri . in the case of an orphan bride or one who come from a needi famili , in the haredi commun neighbor band togeth to provid a modest repast to celebr the occas . so there is no need for alleg bride to ask for help in purchas a wed gown , when they can get one grati . but there are genuin case , which should have where to turn , in addit to ani help they may receiv from local and govern welfar servic . an exampl is a same - sex coupl , michal and rotem and their four - year - old daughter , omer , who were rescu from the atroc surround their home on kibbutz be & rsquo ; eri . one of the women wa six month pregnant and subsequ gave birth to twin . the babi brought much light and joy into the live of their parent , but unfortun , one of them , shahar , wa born with a sever heart defect that urgent requir surgeri . the surgeri he need is not avail in israel and can be perform onli in boston . the cost is prohibit , and there is noth that either of the mother own that can be sold to pay for the expens involv . while the boston jewish commun might be of some assist , it is unlik that it could cover all the cost . anyon who want to help , may do so via http : // yanshufim . giveback . co . il / our_heart_helook into newli - elect mexican presid ' s jewish pastmost peopl who are second - or third - gener holocaust survivor make a point of tell the stori of parent or grandpar who were actual survivor . appar , thi doe not appli to mexico & rsquo ; s recent elect presid , claudia sheinbaum , who is her countri & rsquo ; s first femal and first jewish presid - elect . write in the forward , andrew silverstein note that sheinbaum ha state that her mother wa born in mexico , wherea record suggest she wa born in bulgaria and surviv the holocaust . one wonder whi sheinbaum would want to hide such a fact . although he spent a larg part of hi life away from hi nativ jerusalem , novelist and playwright a . b . yehoshua , a graduat of gymnasia rehavia and the hebrew univers , will be commemor in the citi of hi birth on the second anniversari of hi death . the titl of a tribut even at mishkenot sha & rsquo ; ananim , & ldquo ; we had a lover , & rdquo ; is base on line from hi 1977 novel , the lover : & ldquo ; we lost a lover in the last war . we had a lover , but sinc that war , we haven & rsquo ; t had one . he simpli disappear . & rdquo ; the even , moder by avi gil , will be complet dedic to the admir and yearn for yehoshua and will featur the launch of gil & rsquo ; s biographi , the mission of a . b . yehoshua , which cover the differ stage in the life of the man consid to be the backbon of contemporari hebrew literatur . among other particip will be actress michal bat - adam , who direct and star in the film the lover ; yair kedar , who direct the film the last chapter of a . b . yehoshua , part of which will be screen dure the even ; book review dan meron , who wa also a close friend of yehoshua ; and prof . eilat shamir , who wa a student and friend of the author & rsquo ; s son gidi yehoshua . with regard to film , roni mahadav - levin , the ceo of the jerusalem cinemathequ , is give film buff ampl notic to save the date for the 41st annual jerusalem film festiv , which tradit take place in the summer , while the annual jewish film festiv take place in the winter . the jerusalem film festiv will be held juli 18 - 27 , 2024 , in an effort to restor what use to be perceiv as normal life . the festiv is be held with the support of the cultur ministri , the van leer foundat , and the jerusalem foundat . & ldquo ; sadli , thi is not the first time that the festiv is be held in the shadow of war , & rdquo ; said mahadav - levin . & ldquo ; but both in good time and difficult time , we believ in the need to creat and screen good film , in the belief in the power of the art of film in strengthen , heal , and give hope that a differ realiti is possibl . & ldquo ; thi can be seen through the myriad of film that will be shown dure the festiv . & rdquo ; vp harri view oct . 7 documentari & nbsp ; follow screen in israel of scream befor silenc , the move documentari in which philanthropist and former facebook coo sheryl sandberg meet supernova music festiv survivor and return hostag , the film wa shown in part at the white hous thi week , where it wa view by vice presid kamila harri , who wa join by sandberg and return hostag amit soussana . soussana said that , while in captiv , she had no control over her mind , bodi , or soul . although it wa difficult for her to tell her stori of sexual abus and violenc by hama , she said , it wa more difficult to remain silent . & ldquo ; we can not look away , & rdquo ; said harri . & ldquo ; we must not be silent . & rdquo ; a photo exhibit design to draw attent to the hostag still wait to return from gaza can be seen at tel aviv & rsquo ; s charl bronfman auditorium , and will remain on view till june 29 . hundr of amateur and profession photograph from across the countri submit photo , and pare down the choic wa extrem difficult . perhap photo not chosen can be sent to other citi , so that , in the final analysi , most will be seen by a wider public . among peopl attend the open were repres of the hostag famili , execut member of bank hapoalim and yoman masa ( travelog ) , which sponsor the exhibit , and survivor of the octob 7 hama assault , includ sharon sharabi , whose brother yossi and eli , were kidnap from kibbutz be & rsquo ; eri . yossi wa subsequ murder . eli & rsquo ; s fate is unknown . hi wife and two daughter were murder . merav berger , the mother of agam berger , one of the idf lookout team of observ who wa abduct from kibbutz nahal oz , came with other member of the berger famili . a photo by dana draznin under the titl homag to agam featur agam & rsquo ; s parent , shlomo and merav , hold the violin that agam love to play . the exhibit wa the brainchild of igal bareket , hapoalim & rsquo ; s chief market offic , who happen to be an avid amateur photograph . bareket wa on hand with hapoalim ceo dov kotler and yoman masa owner itamar peleg . as one of hi final ceremoni deed in offic , australian governor - gener david hurley , as the repres in australia of king charl , confer king charl birthday honor on more than 700 peopl , among them south african - born prof . vernon van heerden , director of the depart of gener intens care at hadassah medic center , in jerusalem & rsquo ; s ein kerem . van heerden wa award the order of australia for & ldquo ; signific servic to intens care medicin , to profession associ , and to tertiari educ . & rdquo ; hurley will be succeed on juli 1 by samantha mostyn , who will becom australia & rsquo ; s 28th governor - gener . a truli remark woman , mostyn & rsquo ; s cv is absolut mind - boggl . known for her except servic to the australian commun , mostyn is a businesswoman and commun leader with a long histori in execut and govern role across divers sector . in 2021 , she wa appoint an offic of the order of australia for distinguish servic to busi , the commun , and women . she ha been a member of the australian faculti of the princ of wale & rsquo ; s busi & amp ; sustain program for 12 year , and a senior associ in the intern program . the daughter of an armi offic , mostyn is a lawyer by train , who launch her career as an associ in the court of appeal of the new south wale suprem court , and ha work at law firm freehil and gilbert and tobin . she ha more recent been award an honorari doctor of law from the australian nation univers . mostyn ha also had an extens career in the australian busi commun , includ work at senior level in telecommun and insur compani in australia and global . she ha also held senior nonexecut role on board , includ transurban and virgin australia , and ha been chairwoman of citibank australia . she current chair awar super and albert music group and is on the board of mirvac . in addit , she ha been a commission with the australian footbal leagu and a drive forc behind the afl women & rsquo ; s footbal . as if all that is not enough , mostyn ha chair multipl not - for - profit board , includ beyond blue , the foundat of young australian , australian invest in women , ausfilm , the australian nation research organ for women & rsquo ; s safeti , and australian volunt intern . she ha been presid of the australian council for intern develop and presid of chief execut women , as well as a nation mental health commiss commission . the governor - gener hold offic at the pleasur of the king . howev , the term is usual understood to be five year . it will be interest to see what mostyn will accomplish dure that period . it & rsquo ; s difficult to measur patriot or even to defin it . peopl of total oppos view may regard themselv as patriot and the other as traitor . in israel , the latter connot usual goe hand in hand with be call a leftist , wherea , when the boot is on the other foot , one of the unsavori epithet is & ldquo ; fascist . & rdquo ; a battl over patriot is brew between two social media combat , yair netanyahu , the elder son of the prime minist , and ran rahav , one of israel & rsquo ; s lead public relat execut . in recent day , yair netanyahu releas a video in which he denigr idf chief of staff lt .- gen . herzi halevi , israel secur agenc head ronen bar , and former head of militari intellig maj .- gen . aharon haliva , who resign after acknowledg the intellig failur that led to the octob 7 massacr . accompani a montag of the trio is a caption : & ldquo ; who appoint you ? & rdquo ; further along is an attack on benni gantz , who ha previous been target by netanyahu jr . did hi father not tell him that thing like that are not done in a time of war ? mani influenti polit , diplomat , and militari expert have attribut the hama assault on israel to the percept that a divid societi is weak and vulner . what wa netanyahu jr . think in drive the wedg further than it is alreadi ? rahav , who never hesit to speak hi mind over what he consid to be injustic , wa fast in use hi x account and hi own brand of scorn . he suggest that netanyahu jr . desist from open hi mouth against the defens establish dure the war for as long as the state of israel pay for him to have a bodyguard . & ldquo ; it cost million , & rdquo ; wrote rahav . & ldquo ; the least you can do is respect the isra taxpay . after the war , there will be a state commiss of inquiri , head by an emeritu presid of the suprem court , and you can testifi befor it . but until then , someon protect by hi state can not open hi mouth in a time of war . & rdquo ; a three - day day festiv of tour and literari activ for the junior gener will be held at the nation librari of israel in celebr of hebrew book week . event will be held monday through wednesday , june 24 - 26 , 4 p . m .- 11 p . m . , and will includ music perform , meet , tour , and variou activ for children & ndash ; all dedic to hebrew literatur and creativ . among the event will be a music perform on monday , host by lior ashkenazi , to mark the 100th anniversari of the birth of israel & rsquo ; s poet laureat yehuda amichai . an outdoor event , present in the plaza of the idan and batia ofer park , it will featur shlomi shaban , assaf amdurski , alon eder , shai tsabari , rona kenan , and other . on tuesday , there will be concurr event : & ldquo ; naomi shemer , an isra biographi , & rdquo ; mark the 20th anniversari of the death of israel & rsquo ; s premier songwrit , with the particip of leli shemer , kenan , yuval mendelson , amir benayoun , and avigayil koevari , who will present shemer & rsquo ; s best - love composit . at the same time , there will be a tour of the librari & rsquo ; s best treasur & ndash ; a rare glimps of draft author by hebrew literatur & rsquo ; s greatest writer and poet . also on tuesday , there will be a convers with yishai sarid about the soldier in the book he write , and in hebrew literatur in gener . there will also be anoth convers , with author haim be & rsquo ; er , yaniv iczkovit , yael neeman , and judith kagan , who will discuss with yuval avivi text that took on new mean after octob 7 . in addit to all thi , the librari & rsquo ; s bookmobil , ir - meow - hu , will offer a theater show , book , and game throughout the three day , and the librari bookstor will be open . the book 101 treasur from the nation librari of israel is avail in english and hebrew . ticket price for hebrew book week event at the librari rang from ni 30 to ni 160 , with discount for soldier and evacue . for more detail and to purchas ticket , visit the nation librari of israel websit ( in hebrew ) : http : // book - week . nli . org . ildaliat al - carmel mayor rafik halabi , who in anoth lifetim wa a prizewin radio and televis journalist , ad hi voic to those of sheikh muafak tarif , the head of the druze commun , and nazih dabbour , the head of the beit jann local author , in respons to the death of fallen soldier capt . wassem mahmoud , who wa due to be releas from the armi on april 1 , but insist on go back into gaza to fight with hi comrad . it is part of the druze tradit to be absolut loyal to the host countri of which they are citizen , but the israel govern doe not respect thi , and in the opinion of member of the druze commun , they are treat as second - class citizen . halabi said that head of druze local council had met with netanyahu last week to express their concern about receiv inadequ budget from the state , and to continu their protest against the nation - state law . halabi and dabbour also made the point that on a percentag basi , beit jann ha the highest armi casualti rate in the countri . they could not understand whi a commun that ha given so much receiv so littl in return . dabbour also note that soldier who fall behind in pay their mortgag , or who have built home without the proper legal permiss , go to fight in gaza , and return to find their home destroy on order by the isra author . bedouin tracker , who are among the best in the countri and are also serv in the idf , if they live in illeg villag may not find their home when they return from the armi . their home may have been bulldoz . how doe israel expect to maintain the loyalti of it minor commun , if it treat them in such an insensit and disrespect manner ? the big question on the mind of mani isra is will israel recov fulli from octob 7 ? to anyon who experienc the yom kippur war , the answer is ye . the miseri and uncertainti that now encompass the countri were in a sens even more horrif then than now , becaus there were no mobil phone , no fax , and not everi home possess a ground line telephon . the idf death toll wa 2 , 691 dure a war that last for less than a month . as pain as the current idf casualti rate is , there are far fewer fallen soldier over a much longer period , though there have been a larger number of civilian casualti , particularli on octob 7 itself . in the earli day after the hama massacr , shani louk , a pretti 22 - year - old dual nation who carri german as well as isra citizenship , becam the global symbol of hama tyranni and inhuman . kidnap at the supernova music festiv by hama terrorist wear bodi cam , a video of her unconsci bodi on the back of a truck wa circul around the globe . her famili clung to the hope that she wa still aliv , especi after inform filter through that she wa be treat in a gaza hospit . german ambassador to israel steffen seibert maintain close contact with the louk famili and help to public it ordeal and germani & rsquo ; s concern . on octob 30 , shani louk & rsquo ; s death wa confirm . on wednesday , june 19 , at 7 p . m . , her parent , ricarda and nissim louk , will talk about the belov , happi - go - lucki , music - love daughter they rememb at a special even honor shani & rsquo ; s memori . share in that convers , organ by tribe israel , will be rabbi shmuley boteach . the venu is capella , hagag tower , 28 ha & rsquo ; arba street , tel aviv . admiss is free of charg . the event is reserv for peopl in shani louk & rsquo ; s age - group . with the ongo transform of the state of israel that inter alia includ chang in the law , polit , the skylin , and the valu we onc held dear , the question aris as to whether futur chang will includ the establish of a casino . the late casino mogul sheldon adelson want to establish a casino in eilat so that the southern resort citi would truli becom the la vega of the middl east . but he wa strongli oppos by a cabinet minist , the late yosef burg , who wa afraid that a casino would becom a den of vice , peddl drug and promot prostitut . adelson & rsquo ; s vision on that score wa never realiz . in an interview with the writer of thi column , dure the period in which he wa still tri to convinc the isra author , adelson said that he had never seen anyon have sex on a gambl tabl . sinc then , he marri an isra and built casino empir in singapor and macao . isra like to gambl , and when the hilton taba casino open in 1994 , onli 200 meter from the isra border , gambler cross nightli from eilat to taba to place their bet . a lot of money that could have stay in israel end up in egypt . but befor then and even afterward , sever illeg and well - patron casino open across israel , but were short - live due to polic raid . the onli legal gambl in israel is the mifal hapayi nation lotteri , which ha increas the varieti of game and prize avail to the public , and toto sport gambl . sheldon adelson , who die three - and - a - half year ago , wa a keen support of the republican parti and one of it most gener bankrol . follow hi death , hi wife dr . miriam adelson wa a littl more reserv in her donat to the parti but , accord to media report , is now throw her financi weight behind donald trump , who dure hi presid honor her with the presidenti medal of freedom . recent , miriam adelson and her son - in - law patrick dumont acquir the major share in the dalla maverick in order to give the la vega sand corpor a foothold in the lone star state , where they hope to introduc casino . texa is veri conserv about casino gambl , so adelson and dumont will have a hard row to hoe . she also pour a lot of money into the elect campaign of dade phelan , which help him to be reelect as speaker of the texa hous of repres . if she succe in open a casino in texa , adelson may turn her attent to israel , where she is the publish of the free , inform tabloid israel hayom . she is also a gener benefactor to variou isra caus . she and her husband gave yad vashem it largest - ever donat , and they did not skimp on other caus they support . at a time when israel is experienc an econom disast , adelson & rsquo ; s fiscal assist to the nation may help to swing legisl in favor of casino . greerfc @ gmail . com