thursday , 30 may , 2024 & bull ; 7 : 30 pm israel time | 12 : 30 pm est | 9 : 30 am psttel aviv univers , israel ' s premier academ institut with it vibrant and sizabl student commun and renown academ staff is set to honor nine except individu for their signific contribut across variou domain , includ philanthropi , research , cultur , and public servic . dure the 2024 board of governor meet , chairwoman of the board dafna meitar - nechmad , presid prof . ariel porat , and rector prof . mark steif will bestow sever honorari degre in a celebratori ceremoni . the hon . rosali silberman abella , the first jewish woman appoint to the suprem court of canada , will also be honor . abella ' s esteem legal career includ groundbreak rule on freedom of religion and express , employ equiti , and corpor account . as a former refuge and the youngest person ever appoint to the judiciari in canada , her legaci is mark by a steadfast commit to justic and human right . the field of law and econom will see prof . lucian bebchuk recogn for hi influenti scholarship and contribut to isra legisl and policymak . hi distinguish career span over four decad , establish him as one of the world & rsquo ; s most influenti scholar in thi field . hi profound contribut have significantli influenc the evolut of isra legisl and policymak , serv as a testament to hi dedic . dr . anita friedman , presid of the koret foundat , will receiv an honorari degre for her effort in enhanc the qualiti of life in the bay area , promot jewish peoplehood , combat antisemit , and strengthen us - israel tie . prof . andrea goldsmith , an esteem figur in wireless commun and the dean of engin and appli scienc at both princeton and stanford univers , will be honor for her pioneer work that ha significantli improv cellular and wi - fi servic worldwid . & nbsp ; among the most interest recipi is one of israel ' s most celebr influenti and success musician , compos , music produc , radio host , and singer - songwrit shlomo artzi , who will be recogn for hi extraordinari contribut to isra music and cultur over five decad . anoth groundbreak entrepreneur , yehuda naftali , known for pioneer the open - air shop center concept in israel and success introduc it to the us market , will be honor for hi innov contribut and philanthrop effort , particularli hi support of the yehuda naftali botan garden at tau . & nbsp ; adv . dan yakir , a lead human right lawyer and chief legal counsel of the associ for civil right in israel , will be recogn for hi dedic to civil liberti and hi role in numer landmark rule . final , prof . daniel simberloff from the univers of tennesse will receiv an honorari degre for hi legendari achiev in ecolog , conserv biolog , and invas speci manag , which have greatli contribut to biodivers protect . these honorari degre are a testament to tel aviv univers ' s commit to recogn global leader who excel in their field and posit impact societi . as part of a four - day event , the celebr will continu with a special red - carpet interview session host by the jerusalem post , give center stage to the achiev and insight of these remark individu . thi articl wa written in cooper with tel aviv univers . & nbsp ; & nbsp ;