not mani peopl aliv today have done as much for human freedom and the jewish peopl as ha natan sharanski . sharanski , born in donetsk , ukrain , wa the spokesman for the human right movement , a prison of zion , and a leader of the struggl for the right of soviet jew to emigr to israel . after appli to `` make aliyah , '' sharanski wa arrest on charg of treason and espionag . he wa convict in a soviet court and serv nine year in the gulag . follow massiv public campaign by the state of israel , world jewri and leader of the free world , sharanski wa releas in 1986 , and emigr to israel , on the veri day of hi releas . in hi first year in israel , sharanski found the zionist forum to aid soviet immigr in their absorpt into isra societi , and , in the 1990 , he found the israel ba ' aliyah parti to repres the interest of russian olim . he serv in four success govern , as a minist , and as deputi prime minist . from 2009 to 2018 , he serv as chairperson of the jewish agenc , and upon hi retir , receiv the israel prize for promot aliya and the ingath of the exil . sharanski also receiv the congression medal of honor in 1986 and the presidenti medal of freedom in 2006 . he is the onli live non - american citizen who is the recipi of these two highest american award . clearli , there is almost noth in the jewish world and in israel that sharanski ha not been involv with , in one way or anoth , in the cours of hi life . at thi challeng time , it seem appropri to discuss current event with sharanski . these are difficult time for us , as a peopl , as a countri , as a societi . how have you felt sinc octob 7 ? '' of cours , there wa a huge failur here of our intellig , our armi , and our politician . we were deepli invest in incorrect concept . for me , it all start back with oslo . i said then , that the idea of our bring a dictat to the palestinian who would make peac with us & mdash ; becaus we would make him a dictat by give him a lot of money & mdash ; did not make sens . it ' s just the revers : the dictat would need us as enemi , and therefor would not make peac with us . '' it continu even with the withdraw ( from the gaza strip , a . w . ) . the idea wa that we would be here , and they would be there , and we could control them that way . as ( prime minist ) arik sharon explain to me , if they turn milit and tri someth , we would go in . i resign from the govern at that time , becaus of the disengag . '' '' we have becom a unit societi `` sharanski believ it wa the spirit of oslo that caus israel ' s leadership , at all level , to act incorrectli , and led to the failur of octob 7 . on the other hand , `` thi event wa a remind of how good it is that we have the state of israel . there is a poet who wrote that the proxim of isra memori day and holocaust day help us understand the price of the world with a state and without a state . when we were in the soviet union and there wa a surg of antisemit , could we could fight , go to court ? no ! we just had to get by , take refug in mathemat and physic , perhap they ' d leav us alon . even after 100 , 000 peopl were kill ( in pogrom ) , there wa noth to be done but to run away to america . '' now , we ' re fight , '' sharanski declar proudli . `` we have transform from a most divid societi into a unit societi . we are all sit in one tank , and our appreci for the state of israel ha been renew . and as much as we call the young gener a tiktok one , it turn out thi gener is give us a lesson in true zionism , in such a nobl , such a brave way . so , good thing are happen . i am optimist about the futur of the state of israel , but far less optimist about what is happen in america and europ . '' sharanski tri to explain what he think is happen nowaday in the west , both in the jewish context and the wider one . `` the jew feel they are part of the liber world , and the liber world think the progress are their partner . for year , i wrote about the fact that the real crisi in the unit state is not between republican and democrat , but between liber and progress . i said that one day , the liber would realiz they were not partner . '' in hi variou role , sharanski met with mani jew in the west . `` i ask jew at univers , in the most elit place , if ani of the organ they had develop relationship with , befriend over the year , express ani sympathi after octob 7 . i ' m not ask for anyth more , just sympathi . they look and look , and found one right - lean organ at yale that particip in mourn . that ' s it . thi mean that all the organ on the progress left see the terribl thing that happen on octob 7 as part of a legitim struggl . thi is a big chang ; antisemit came out in a big way . '' sharanski say in the past he had theori about how to prove a connect between antisemit and anti - zionism . `` today we no longer need a theori , we don ' t need to show anyth , it ' s in everyday life . i hope that the new gener of american jew will go out in public and fight over thi it . '' you said you were encourag by the uniti here , but there is a repeat of the tension we saw befor octob 7 , isn ' t there ? '' there is a comeback , but a group of politician and a group of journalist are behind it . the mass are not with them today , unlik what happen until octob 7 when half the countri thought the other half wa tri to steal their democraci and the other half thought they were tri to steal their judaism . today , the peopl feel that it is import for everyon that there is a jewish state , and also a free countri , and you can see thi with almost everi bereav famili of a fallen soldier . also , we see that , in the moment of truth , suddenli , the real and deep thing that unit us still exist . they aren ' t lost . '' marxism is backi spoke not long ago with a research name izabella tabarovski who believ that the anti - zionist rhetor and progress left activ stem from the soviet attitud toward zionism and israel . do you agre with thi analysi ? '' ye , of cours . i think izabella is right . there is a larg group of peopl who left he soviet union who understand much better than most american what exactli happen in america . the whole post - modern ideolog that divid the world into oppress and oppressor is neo - marxism in it most primit form . in the studi of critic race theori & mdash ; which have becom the koran of the progress & mdash ; if you replac race with class , you get the ideolog of the bolshevik in the soviet union . there , too , the whole war is between one good side and one bad side , between the proletariat and the capitalist . the capitalist are alway wrong and should not be given freedom of speech & mdash ; asid from those who are consid polit correct . and the capitalist world should be destroy complet , and a just world will be built on thi . it is veri sad that marxism ha come back after such a huge failur . it ha come back via the academi becaus it could not come back through polit . it is alway like that , the bad idea alway come from the academi . '' when did i first realiz that thi is what had happen ? '' sharanski ask , and immedi answer : `` twenti year ago , i wa tour univers in america , and i told arik sharon , who wa then prime minist , that thi wa where the most import struggl for israel ' s futur wa take place . i saw there for the first time that student were afraid to say what they thought becaus it would not be good for their career . and as soon that start , it start take us toward soviet life . '' how do you overcom thi mad ? '' liber student , first of all jewish student , should enter the arena , stand up , and take a strong posit . a posit that say we are jew , we are zionist , zionism is part of our ident , and the unit state , accord to it principl , must protect us . it is alreadi start ; 500 student in columbia issu a veri firm letter , and everi day more student are join , and i believ it will reach more univers . in addit , there are now investig into how qatar give ten of billion of dollar to univers . thi must be investig . '' correspond with navalnyin februari of thi year , american journalist bari weiss reveal that dure april 2023 , russian opposit leader alexei navalni , who wa appar kill in prison , correspond with sharanski . navalni had written to sharanski , say he had read `` fear no evil , '' sharanski ' s account of hi year of struggl against communist rule . in the letter , he also quot from the bibl : `` that which hath been is that which shall be , '' and said , among other thing , that he `` continu to believ we will fix it , and that one day in russia there will be what ha not been . '' how did your relationship with navalni come about ? '' about a year and a half ago , i suddenli receiv a letter from navalni through hi lawyer . '' a physic letter ? '' a handwritten letter that wa photocopi and sent to my email . '' and what did he say ? '' he said , we didn ' t know each other , but he wa write to me as a reader to a writer , becaus he had read my book and wa amaz at how much the situat had gone back to what it wa when i wa in the gulag . dure my year in prison , i spent 450 day in isol , navalni wa alreadi almost 300 day in isol . it is clear from hi letter that he is a free man , and of cours i wrote that i admir him and hi struggl . it wa clear thi wa a veri strong man , that he wa optimist , not becaus of what wa happen with him , but that he wa optimist about the victori of hi struggl . we had an exchang of letter , and we had a good feel toward one anoth `` . what wa in hi last letter to you ? '' in the last letter , right befor he enter the isol cell again , he wrote to me : ' i receiv a letter from you , and i don ' t know when i will be abl to write to you again , so i ' m simpli write to you . ' what wa interest is that he end the letter with the word ' next year in jerusalem ' in russian letter & mdash ; the last word in my book . as if he want to join the optim of jewish histori . '' you are one of the personag most identifi with the word `` freedom . '' what is freedom to you ? '' freedom is when you can do and say thing you believ in . in thi respect , in prison i wa much freer than those who interrog me . dure the interrog , i realli like to tell anti - soviet joke about brezhnev . the guard were almost burst but could not laugh becaus of the consequ . and i would say to them , ' well , you want to tell me that i ' m in prison ? you ' re in prison & mdash ; you can not laugh . ' for me , freedom is veri much relat to ident , becaus we found the strength to fight for our ident onli when we becam a free peopl , and vice versa . '' the fact that the west itself ha lost it ident is connect to everyth we see now . and here israel ha a special role . we are part of the free world , yet still insist on maintain our ident as a jewish state . '' how did you feel about the judici overhaul , the conduct of the govern , and all the demonstr ? '' i thought both side were wrong . there wa no reason for netanyahu , who came to power for a four - year term , to tri in two month to introduc a law that chang thing so significantli . i agre with most of the element of the reform except for a few thing , but they want to do everyth immedi . it wa a huge mistak . let ' s say that in the first week bibi didn ' t understand that [ minist of justic yariv ] levin wa rush someth , okay , but after ten week you can alreadi understand it wa a mistak . '' on the other hand , the demonstr shout to the whole world that thi is the end of democraci , that thi is a dictatorship , that thi is the end of women ' s freedom & mdash ; i think that ' s irrespons . onc one of the organ of the demonstr ask me , ' whi don ' t you come to our demonstr ? ' i ask , ' whi do you shout that thi is the end of democraci ? ' he told me , ' without it , we wouldn ' t be abl to bring along so mani peopl . ' that ' s cynic . '' too mani year in powersharanski ha known benjamin netanyahu sinc he wa a diplomat . ask hi opinion about netanyahu and hi perform these day , he repli that `` bibi is a great politician , a great leader . it ' s not by chanc that he ha been at the head of thi countri for so long . when i wa in the govern , i saw how he fought to liber the economi . thank to him & mdash ; and i wa there & mdash ; there ' s the taglit - birthright project , not to mention the fact that he wa first in the world to understand the iranian threat . and when he wa prime minist and minist of financ , he began advanc the sanction . he also took offic after the oslo accord , when there were mani commit in place , and he manag to moder them . '' follow thi prais , sharanski come to hi problem with netanyahu : `` i think it ' s not good when a politician stay in power for too long . i told thi to bibi when i left my posit at the jewish agenc . he ask me ' perhap you ' d like anoth term ? ' i answer , ' bibi , more than two term isn ' t healthi . ' he ask , ' are you tell me that ? ' and i said , ' ye , you too . ' when you ' re in a post like that for a long time , you begin to feel that the best thing for the countri would be for you to stay in power & mdash ; and then that becom the goal . and there is no doubt that he ha also contribut to the divis here . the fact that he start use the word ' leftist ' as word describ an enemi is veri bad . '' he should have finish up , and prepar a new gener to replac him , but he felt that there wa no - one who could replac him to save the countri , and thought ' i need to stay in power ' . and thi , i think , is a mistak . but i will emphas again that hi contribut to the countri ha nonetheless been great . ''