presid biden spoke with the `` big four `` leader on a call sunday to discuss iran ' s unpreced attack against israel , accord to white hous pool report . & nbsp ; on the call , biden discuss the urgent need to pass the nation supplement as soon as possibl on a call sunday , senat major leader chuck schumer ( d - ny ) , senat minor leader mitch mcconnel ( r - ky ) , speaker of the hous mike johnson ( r - la ) , and hous minor leader hakeem jeffri ( d - ny ) . the onli aid packag for israel that will get to presid joe biden ' s desk is the senat - pass supplement bill which includ militari aid for ukrain , taiwan and israel and also humanitarian aid for gaza , rank member of the senat foreign relat committe sen . gregori meek ( d - ny ) said sunday morn on msnbc . & nbsp ; meek reiter biden ' s stanc that us defens support for israel is `` ironclad . '' on saturday night as us forc intercept iranian missil and uav target israel , hous republican leader rep . steve scalis ( la ) said thi week ' s legisl schedul will be chang to bring forward legisl to support israel . & nbsp ; detail of thi come week ' s legisl chang have yet to be announc as of sunday morn . & nbsp ; in earli novemb , the republican - led hous pass a plan to provid $ 14 . 3 billion in aid to israel and cut fund to the ternal revenu servic . but becaus it combin aid for israel with a cut to the intern revenu servic and left out aid for ukrain , presid joe biden promis a veto and senat chuck schumer , major leader of the democrat - control senat , said he would not bring it up for a vote . senat supplement billin februari , the democrat - led senat pass it supplement bill which would give $ 60 . 06 billion in aid for ukrain , $ 14 . 1 billion to israel , $ 2 . 44 billion for oper in the red sea and almost $ 4 . 82 for partner in the indo - pacif to deter aggress by china . & nbsp ; the senat bill would also provid $ 9 . 15 billion in humanitarian assist for civilian in gaza , the west bank , ukrain and other popul in conflict zone around the globe . & nbsp ; '' the administr strongli encourag both chamber of the congress to reject thi polit ploy and instead quickli send the bipartisan emerg nation secur supplement appropri act to the presid & rsquo ; s desk , '' the white hous offic of manag and budget said in a statement in februari . & nbsp ; former presid donald trump is the lead republican voic oppos to send addit fund to ukrain . republican hous speaker mike johnson , a close trump alli , declin to allow a hous vote on the senat supplement bill for month . johnson met with trump on friday in florida , fuel specul about whether trump will clear a vote on biden ' s nation secur spend request . & nbsp ; howev , not everi republican is side with trump . & nbsp ; mccaul on ukrain and israelin an interview sunday morn on cb ' face the nation , hous foreign affair committe chairman michael mccaul ( r - tx ) said he will be speak with johnson on sunday night about the dire situat in ukrain . & nbsp ; mccaul said an option for israel ' s respons to saturday night ' s attack would be to take out the facil where iranian drone or rocket come from , and also destroy the manufactur facil that build them . & nbsp ; not just for israel ' s sake , mccaul said , but also for ukrain becaus the rocket and drone are be bought by russia and are use to kill ukrainian . & nbsp ; what happen in israel on saturday night happen in ukrain everi night , mccaul said . & nbsp ; mccaul told cb ' margaret brennan that he need to educ hi hous colleagu on how israel , ukrain and the indo - pacif are all tie togeth . & nbsp ; '' iran is sell thi stuff to russia . guess who ' s buy iran ' s energi ? china , '' mccaul said , which is happen becaus the biden administr lift sanction on iran and help fund their terror oper , he ad . & nbsp ; mccaul said he ' s an `` etern optimist `` and is do hi part . he said in world war ii the us didn ' t choos it enemi , it went after japan , itali and germani all togeth . & nbsp ; '' we just can ' t pick and say iran is bad , russia is okay and china is bad . they ' re all in thi togeth , '' mccaul said , `` and it ' s veri clear to those of us in the intellig nation secur commun . ''