controversi over the award of the israel prize ha not yet subsid . attorney batya kahana dror recent file an urgent petit to the high court of justic seek to prevent sephardi chief rabbi yitzhak yosef from receiv the israel prize for torah literatur , which wa announc in march . kahana dror & rsquo ; s complaint ha noth to do with torah literatur , but with yosef & rsquo ; s remark on the haredi draft , which have been interpret as encourag draft - dodg by ultra - orthodox young men consid elig for armi servic . the movement for qualiti govern file a similar complaint in march , call for the rabbi & rsquo ; s remov from the great rabbin court of appeal in a letter to uri shoham , the isra judiciari & rsquo ; s ombudsman . the letter accus yosef of overstep hi role by support the attempt to prevent the enact of legisl that would forc ultra - orthodox youth to perform militari servic . yosef wa report to have said that if there is a chang from the statu quo wherebi exempt from militari servic will no longer be valid , ultra - orthodox youth will leav the countri in drove . as a public servant who receiv hi salari from the state , yosef spoke out of turn , and what he said wa a form of incit . he ha sinc state that he wa misunderstood , but to no avail . there have been call for hi ouster and for the retract of the award . there have also been demonstr against him . as ha happen in the past , the question aris as to whether a person should be judg onli for achiev in the categori in which he or she ha been name as an israel prize winner or whether the award of the prize should also be base on that person & rsquo ; s behavior and polit and religi view and affili . empti seat on passov at the great synagogu ■ one of the most demor thing that could happen dure a pilgrim festiv , such as passov , is to attend servic at the majest jerusalem great synagogu and see that most of the seat are empti . there could be sever reason for thi . one is that peopl slept in after the seder , have gone to bed at midnight or later . anoth is that , due to numer flight cancel , mani of the thousand of evacue transfer to jerusalem after octob 7 have return to their home , leav no tourist to replac them . yet anoth is the polic warn follow the terrorist attack in jerusalem just ahead of the holiday ; fear may have kept some peopl at home . but , as alway , the inspir great synagogu choir , with it wide vocal rang that accompani cantor tzvi weiss and wa conduct by elli jaff , wa top - notch , even though it & rsquo ; s somewhat disconcert that weiss sing in the ashkenazi pronunci of hebrew . latecom began to file in after the bibl read , more so in the men & rsquo ; s section than in the women & rsquo ; s , but there were still far too mani empti seat in both . in nearbi franc squar , a long , symbol seder tabl had been set with artist fold yellow paper napkin on each plate , empti wine bottl , and dead flower . each chair had a larg photograph of a hostag , affix with hi or her name , send a power messag . the symbol high chair at the head of the tabl , which bore the portrait of kfir biba , the youngest of the hostag , wa especi poignant . & nbsp ; the fact that the high chair wa at the head of the tabl wa reminisc of the prophet isaiah & rsquo ; s vision , which , in addit to includ the wolf dwell with the lamb and the leopard with the young goat and the lion , spoke of a small child who would lead them . & nbsp ; though each and everi hostag is equal import , none ha captur as much sympathi as kfir biba , whose first birthday on januari 18 wa spent in captiv in gaza . the venu for the symbol seder wa appropri in that there are synagogu within the distanc of a kilomet in all direct , repres most stream of judaism . prayer and special psalm for the hostag have been incorpor into synagogu servic . hama ' s hostag video ■ the video of hersh goldberg - polin that wa releas by hama last week and the time of the releas may possibl be attribut to two factor . one is that he is a dual nation , hold american and isra citizenship , and the other is that hi mother , rachel goldberg - polin , wa includ in time magazin & rsquo ; s list of the 100 most influenti peopl . goldberg - polin ha been extrem activ in the campaign by hostag famili for the return of their love one to israel . unfortun , becaus the date of the video is unknown , no one know the true state of hersh & rsquo ; s health . but what matter is that , hope , he & rsquo ; s aliv , and unlik so mani other parent who have no idea whether their son and daughter are aliv , the goldberg - polin have at least receiv a sign , and they can play the video over and over again . it is so terribl import for hostag famili to keep get the word out , not just becaus they want more peopl to understand what ha happen and to imagin what it would be like if one of their love one were captur by hama , but becaus gilad shalit had been hearten dure hi captiv by hear on the radio that hi famili and the israel govern had not given up on him . hi captor had allow him to listen to the radio from time to time , which is whi the messag of rel of the hostag are rebroadcast sever time a day , and the messag alway includ all the hostag , assur them that the effort for their releas are ongo without let - up . meanwhil , news of the releas of the video , which wa the first sign of life that hersh goldberg polin & rsquo ; s famili have receiv sinc octob 7 , prompt a spontan demonstr near the prime minist & rsquo ; s resid in jerusalem with a demand to resum negoti for the return of the hostag . the number of demonstr quickli swell into the hundr , necessit polic intervent . polic push the crowd back into franc squar , where the nois level wa much louder than at demonstr last year . tribut to the dayan famili ■ the final rest place of member of the fame dayan famili , whose contribut to the nation have been militari , polit , literari , and dramat , includ assi dayan , the celebr actor and filmmak , who die on may 1 , 2014 , and hi cousin yehonatan geffen , the author , poet , songwrit , journalist , satirist , and playwright who die on april 19 , 2023 . becaus nahal wa home to so mani well - known person , the cemeteri , like the trumpeldor cemeteri in tel aviv , is embed in the natur of a tourist site , where the name on the tombston are link to the evolv histori of the state . write in maariv , the sister public of the jerusalem post , journalist lior dayan , in pay tribut to hi father assi , who unfortun wa a drug addict , observ that so often , when a parent die , hi or her children say they regret that there are so mani thing they never got around to tell them . but that wa not the case with him and hi father , lior wrote . they told each other everyth , candidli and without secret . at the start of the lengthi articl , he mention how the tour guid & rsquo ; s anecdot about the dayan famili captiv the tourist group that visit the cemeteri . on a recent visit to hi father & rsquo ; s grave , he overheard a boy , stand with hi mother , ask in relat to assi , & ldquo ; so , what did he do ? & rdquo ; & ldquo ; he did a lot , & rdquo ; she repli . & ldquo ; a lot of good or a lot of bad ? & rdquo ; he persist . & ldquo ; a lot of good for the public ; a lot of bad for himself , & rdquo ; she answer . in lior & rsquo ; s opinion , thi wa the most succinct and definit sum up of who hi father wa . aliza bloch ' s new book ■ polit leader who lose to their oppon quickli learn that there is life beyond the corridor of power . aliza bloch , the immedi past mayor of beit shemesh , despit an intens busi schedul dure her period in offic , nonetheless found time to prepar her new book , bridg of light , which she launch thi month in the presenc of minist without portfolio chili troper and sever past and present politician , includ member of the beit shemesh municip council , as well as other well - known figur . anzac day in israel ■ anzac day , which commemor the ill - fate dawn land in gallipoli by australian and new zealand troop on april 25 , 1915 , ha for mani year been a day of remembr for all the australian and new zealand soldier who die in the line of duti . in israel , the anzac day servic is tradit held at the commonwealth war grave cemeteri in jerusalem at a reason hour of the morn , though one of the recent australian ambassador insist on a dawn servic . it is usual host by the australian ambassador and attend by militari attach & eacut ; s & ndash ; and , occasion , by ambassador of the alli forc that fought in the first world war & ndash ; as well as by repres of the turkish and german embassi . thi year , due to the current secur situat and the passov holiday , the servic wa shorter than in past year , and instead of be held in jerusalem , it took place at the ramleh war cemeteri on thursday of last week at the reason hour of 9 . 30 a . m . kudo to australian ambassador ralph king for refrain from a dawn servic . greerfc @ gmail . com