last week saw an interest discuss around china play a possibl role in peacemak between israel and the palestinian . the discuss illustr china & rsquo ; s grow role in the middl east . after china help broker a deal between saudi arabia and iran , it appear that beij could solv mani problem by pose as an outsid with no real agenda or baggag . china & rsquo ; s foreign minist indic that beij could play a role in israel - palestinian peac talk , accord to report last week . he had separ call with israel and the palestinian , the guardian report . & ldquo ; the separ phone call between the chines foreign minist , qin gang , and the isra and palestinian top diplomat come amid recent move by beij to posit itself as a region mediat , & rdquo ; the report said . accord to an articl at al - ain media in the uae , for mani year , & ldquo ; china maintain good relat with the palestinian and the isra , but it did not present itself as a mediat to resolv the conflict between the two parti . & rdquo ; china ha now play a role bring saudi arabia and iran togeth , howev , so whi not tackl anoth area of tension , the report said . & ldquo ; israel consid the unit state to be the exclus mediat in it conflict with the palestinian , and ha alway reject european , un and russian mediat , & rdquo ; it said . it appear the palestinian think the chines might play a posit role . thi wa rais by palestinian author foreign minist riyad al - maliki last week . howev , china is now perceiv as a rival by the us , and washington ha been clear to israel and other countri that they should be wari of china & rsquo ; s influenc , especi as that might relat to sensit technolog . thi is at the heart of sever controversi over the year , such as china invest in port or commun . becaus israel ha such close tie to the us and isra defens compani have mani us partner , there is an increas spotlight on china & rsquo ; s role in the region . in fact , china & rsquo ; s grow influenc in israel appear to peak a few year ago . china is reach out to the palestinian . beij say it support the pa , seek to continu assist the palestinian and back the two - state solut . the chines said they would welcom visit by palestinian offici . so how would china facilit peac talk with israel and the palestinian ? so how would china facilit peac talk with israel and the palestinian ? consid how china sign a 25 - year deal with iran recent , is it an imparti actor today ? the global shift that are take place in the wake of covid and russia & rsquo ; s invas of ukrain may have chang thing so much that beij would find it to be an uphil struggl these day . nevertheless , china appear to have messag disciplin on thi issu . it ha spoken to israel and the palestinian . chines presid xi jinp appear seriou . there are sever way thi could develop , and china could tri to mediat more and play a larger role . thi will put israel in an awkward posit . if israel appear to not be interest , it could caus china to see israel in a neg light and begin to invest more in tie with the palestinian and iran . tehran ha interest here as well . iran & rsquo ; s agenda is to undermin the pa and spread chao in the palestinian citi via weapon smuggl . china is offici against milit , terrorist and chao . beij claim to want stabil in the region , and it want deal between parti in conflict so that it can develop trade relat . china ha been talk up it belt and road initi for year . thi wa suppos to knit the region togeth in econom term . howev , onc again , the russian war in ukrain and us - china tension have chang thing . russia & rsquo ; s war acceler process in intern relat , which mean it acceler china & rsquo ; s confront with the west . despit franc & rsquo ; s outreach , beij is indic it support moscow undermin the global rule - base intern order . beij continu to make comment about the baltic state that caus dismay in the west . on the other hand , as the belt and road initi may not be as import these day , becaus the world is more divid , and china & rsquo ; s soft , quiet and consist approach to influenc build in the region ha shift , it & rsquo ; s not clear if the econom - stabil model is even relev . for instanc , for mani year , we were told that link russia & rsquo ; s economi to europ would reduc the chanc of war . in the end , thi global neoliber agenda fail becaus china and russia have shown that despit econom link , they have becom more nationalist , authoritarian and hostil to the west . thu , democrat peac or belt and road have not come to fruition . therefor , how will china & rsquo ; s talk of broker peac deal come to fruition ? for china , the role of mediat is bolster by it not have a major histor role in the region . on the other hand , it suffer from declin percept of neutral in the region as it play a greater role here . that mean countri all pour into china their hope and belief of what it might be to the region , and as with all diminish return and feedback loop , it will inevit come up short becaus you can & rsquo ; t be all thing to all peopl . the region ha a histori of have expect and then be angri when they aren & rsquo ; t met . at the same time , china doesn & rsquo ; t have a long histor track record of mediat or solv conflict . the us , despit it baggag , doe have a long role of help end conflict . thi goe back more than 100 year , when teddi roosevelt & rsquo ; s administr help end the russo - japanes war . china & rsquo ; s track record closer to home at end conflict doe not bode well for peacemak in the region . a more power china is clearli rise , and it is will to take risk , such as work with the saudi and iranian . that may not mean that what it achiev in those talk can be replic .