sinc the sign of the oslo accord , the peac treati between israel and jordan , and the wye river agreement in the 1990 , effort by politician and diplomat to resolv the isra - palestinian conflict have stall . in the 21st centuri , accord to rabbi ron kronish , religi extrem , ultranationalist fanatic , and intransig leadership on both side , fuel by compet narr about the past and the present , meant & ldquo ; a war process replac the peac process . & rdquo ; accord to kronish , after then - opposit leader and maj .- gen . ( re . ) ariel sharon made a provoc visit to the templ mount , palestinian launch a second intifada ; the isra govern construct what it call a & ldquo ; secur fenc , & rdquo ; which palestinian blast as an & ldquo ; apartheid wall & rdquo ; ; and , in 2005 prime minist sharon order what turn out to be a disastr withdraw of jewish settler and the idf from the gaza strip . these develop , kronish state in hi book profil in peac , have made peacebuild & ldquo ; the onli game in town . & rdquo ; the initi of the non - government organ they establish , he believ , provid the last best hope to influenc decis - maker to revers cours and make compromis to ensur a just and last resolut to what is now regard as an intract conflict . can ngo help decis - maker make peac ? born in the us and educ at brandei univers and harvard & rsquo ; s graduat school of educ , kronish immigr to israel in 1979 , four month after israel and egypt sign a peac agreement . in 1982 , kronish took to the street , join protest declar the isra armi complicit in the massacr of palestinian in the refuge camp of sabra and shatilla in beirut . & nbsp ; from 1991 - 2014 , he serv as the founder and director of the interreligi coordin council in israel ( icci ) . a harsh critic of what he call the & ldquo ; militarist , anti - palestinian , pro - occup & rdquo ; likud parti , as well as plo and hama terrorist , kronish is the author of the other peac process ( 2017 ) . in profil in peac , kronish review effort by politician to resolv the isra - palestinian conflict sinc the 1967 six day war and provid biograph sketch of six peacebuild & ndash ; three isra and three palestinian arab & ndash ; and four member of a younger gener of activist . & nbsp ; despit & ldquo ; overwhelm obstacl and complex challeng , & rdquo ; kronish claim , these men and women have demonstr that & ldquo ; enrich and energ & rdquo ; relationship with perceiv enemi can be forg , lay the foundat for a common futur for jew , christian and arab . peacebuild oper on the assumpt that dialogu on subject of mutual interest , undertaken in support set , enhanc by precept of trauma heal and conflict resolut , can empow individu to bridg religi and ethnic differ . hand of peac , for exampl , bring isra and palestinian teenag to the us for four success summer . in 2018 , the allianc for middl east peac creat a storytel & rsquo ; s project to enlist peacebuild alumni , includ isra and palestinian soldier , to share their experi . again and again ( profil in peac , ala , is often repetiti ) , kronish singl out initi to & ldquo ; get to know & lsquo ; the other & rsquo ; deepli , & rdquo ; and take serious hi or her religi and histor narr , as central to peac work . who are the activist ? kronish & rsquo ; s activist & ndash ; huda abuarquob , moham dajani daoudi , munib younan , michael melchior , galia golan , and hadassah froman & ndash ; have certainli exhibit an abund of courag , convict , commit , persever and resili . it & rsquo ; s less clear , howev , how effect their effort have been . kronish doe not address studi reveal that contact doe not increas religi or ethnic toler in & ldquo ; weak relationship . & rdquo ; and that self - select is a signific ( and therefor limit ) factor in forg endur relationship with perceiv enemi . as kronish and hi peacebuild acknowledg , moreov , the polit context between israel and the palestinian ha made free and unfett interreligi and intercultur dialogu difficult to arrang . when dajani , a professor of american studi and librarian at al - qud univers , propos take 30 palestinian student to auschwitz and 30 student to a refuge camp in bethlehem , a violent respons to the trip led to hi resign and the cancel of the project . & nbsp ; and neither isra nor palestinian author accept the recommend of bishop younan & rsquo ; s council of religi institut of the holi land to revis textbook in the school . most import , dure the last two decad , peacebuild & rsquo ; initi have not had a signific impact on isra or palestinian politician , or for that matter , on public opinion . and so , it should not be surpris that , along with frequent express of hope , kronish & rsquo ; s peacebuild sometim give voic to pessim about the futur . given & ldquo ; the mani forc of violenc and opposit to what we are do , & rdquo ; froman declar her intent , somehow , to & ldquo ; creat a small oasi of peac coexist & rdquo ; in her area of the west bank . & nbsp ; convinc that & ldquo ; civil strife may one day lead to the end of israel , regardless of the occup , & rdquo ; golan find it & ldquo ; veri difficult to be optimist these day . & rdquo ; although dialogu ha broaden hi horizon , tareq saman , one of kronish & rsquo ; s younger peacebuild , ha conclud that & ldquo ; there is no solut to the isra - palestinian conflict & hellip ; it look like one parti will win and the other will lose . & rdquo ; respond in hi prison notebook to the rise of fascism in the 1930 , marxist theorist antonio gramsci indic he wa & ldquo ; far from feel beaten . it seem to me that & hellip ; a man out to be deepli convinc that the sourc of hi own moral forc is himself & hellip ; never fall into those vulgar , banal mood , pessim and optim . my own state of mind synthes these two feel and transcend them ; my mind is pessimist , but my will is optimist & hellip ; i imagin the worst that could happen in order to summon up my reason and willpow to overcom everi obstacl . & rdquo ; in all likelihood , kronish doe not endors gramsci & rsquo ; s pessim of the intellect & ndash ; even if the consider obstacl in israel , the west bank and gaza make it seem reason to do so .  the writer is the thoma and dorothi litwin professor of american studi at cornel univers . profil in peacebi ron kronishl . e . a . r . h . n . peacebuild publications215 page ; $ 22 . 95