actress mouna hawa , famou for her role in the award - win seri fauda , ha call descript of the hama massacr on octob 7 `` propaganda , '' accord to some screenshot of an exchang of messag publish by israel hayom . hawa gain intern recognit for her portray of amal , an arab widow seek reveng after her husband is kill dure their wed parti in the first season of fauda . she is also the recipi of an ophir award . the report explain that the exchang took place after a classmat of hawa from film school confront her about a post on social media accus israel of cut off water access to 2 . 2 million peopl and predict hundr of thousand of death due to dehydr unless the `` apartheid regim `` restor access . when confront by the classmat about her alleg , the actress deni the verac of some of the atroc commit by hama , claim that `` there wa insuffici evid . `` & ldquo ; there is no concret evid of rape or murder , & rdquo ; she wrote . & ldquo ; thi is propaganda to gain sympathi . hama is not respons for the immedi death of the palestinian peopl . palestinian have been die for year , but suddenli you are concern ? '' she further question her classmat ' s lack of awar regard the ongo kill of palestinian and emphas that the situat wa a consequ of isra occup and imprison . & nbsp ; hawa conclud by request her classmat not to contact her if they couldn ' t understand her viewpoint . ' my word were taken out of context ' reach for comment by israel hayom , howev , hawa said that the exchang happen at a time when the atroc had not yet been confirm by the isra author and her word were taken out of context . '' i have never support harm to civilian , women , or babi , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; my moral posit , which i held befor and dure the war , is clear : no innoc person should be harm . thi is particularli relev to the atroc that occur in the gaza border commun . & ldquo ; the convers mention wa taken out of context and repres a privat discuss , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; at the time , there were report in the intern media question the accuraci of the claim of behead and rape . even the idf spokesperson did not confirm these statement . while we can not determin all the fact definit , it is evid that the situat is disastr , regardless of behead . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; act such as rape , behead , and harm children should be condemn without except , regardless of who commit them , & rdquo ; she further said . & ldquo ; i have not made ani statement justifi the massacr of civilian , and ani attempt to cherri - pick from a privat convers is a deliber attack on my reput . '' last month , anoth isra - arab actress , maisa abd elhadi , wa indict by isra author for her statement in support of hama .