thousand gather virtual around the world to commemor the jew who were massacr dure the farhud pogrom in 1941 . & nbsp ; the farhud wa a pogrom that took place in baghdad and basra on june 1 and 2 of 1941 that culmin in the murder of 180 jew . dure the purg , hundr were injur and the home and synagogu within the jewish commun were loot and burnt to the ground . & nbsp ; the ceremoni wa organ by david dangoor , who is a businessman and philanthropist who grew up in the jewish commun of baghdad and now live in the uk . & nbsp ; consid the recent escal between israel and terror group in the gaza strip , dangoor felt it wa especi import to highlight thi pogrom to present what happen when antisemit run rampant . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the farhud wa a tragic event that sound the death knell for the oldest jewish diaspora commun , but sadli is not well known around the world , & rdquo ; said dangoor . & ldquo ; it is vital that the jewish world and beyond commemor the farhud to understand better how to deal with hate , incit and violenc , and prevent such event from happen in the present and futur . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; even up to the veri end , mani jew and arab in iraq refus to be enemi and live and work side by side , & quot ; he ad . & quot ; animos wa larg import from outsid and incit use as a tool for polit goal . unfortun , we see mani similar worri sign in the violenc in israel , the us and europ in recent day . & quot ; & nbsp ; the commemor had peopl across the world light virtual candl in honor of the victim of the pogrom . facebook user also have the opportun to appli a filter to their profil pictur . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; each shavuot , thousand of jew from baghdad rememb the traumat day when 2 , 400 year of jewish life in babylon came to an end . & nbsp ; exactli 70 year ago , on the eve of shavuot , some 700 jew in the citi were murder in a nazi - led pogrom known as the farhud ( & ldquo ; violent dispossess & rdquo ; in arab ) . inspir by kristallnacht , it mark the end of one of the oldest jewish commun in the diaspora and show how far hitler & rsquo ; s hatr of the jew spread global dure world war ii . & nbsp ; the jew of iraq had been live peac in baghdad sinc the babylonian era . by 1941 , they number around 150 , 000 , make up over a third of the popul . & nbsp ; the monarchi in iraq , instal by the uk , had been overthrown by the lawyer rashid ali al - gaylani in april 1941 , in a violent coup one month befor the farhud . & nbsp ; rashid ali had strong link to the nazi parti and the grand mufti , a close alli of hitler . rashid ali indoctrin the countri with nazi propaganda ; children in iraqi school were taught to prais hitler and that jew were a treacher enemi , and radio berlin had regular broadcast in arab . & nbsp ; support by the nazi , he aim to rid iraq of britain and to gain access to the huge oil reserv in kirkuk . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; an order wa issu to iraq & rsquo ; s air forc to destroy the british raf base in habbaniyeh , west of baghdad . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; although the raf wa onli equip with plane left over from world war i , the bomb campaign fail drastic , with iraq & rsquo ; s inept air forc shoot down sever of it own plane . & nbsp ; & nbsp ; on may 30 , rashid ali wa forc to flee . with british ground troop advanc on baghdad and with no leader , the jewish commun wa left in a peril posit . & nbsp ; two day later , on june 1 , the observ jewish commun wa prepar for shavuot , oblivi to a huge mob of rampag muslim shout , & ldquo ; cutal al yehud ! & rdquo ; ( slaughter the jew ) . & nbsp ; with no organ resist , mani of the jew who surviv unscath bribe iraqi policemen to stand guard . & nbsp ; but the violenc worsen dure the night , and the mob soon number in the ten of thousand , target everi jewish home in the citi . the mufti had made thi task simpl by advis the chief rabbi to ask the still - trust jewish commun to paint a red hamsa ( palm - shape amulet use as a sign of protect ) on the outsid of their home . & nbsp ; while the violenc continu unab , british troop were wait on the outskirt of the citi , forbidden to enter . & nbsp ; by the second day of fight , the mob & rsquo ; s violenc had spread to such a degre that muslim shop were also be loot , and a curfew wa eventu call at 5 p . m . remain violat on the street were shot , and a rel calm wa soon restor . & nbsp ; when the state of israel wa creat , life in iraq becam unbear , with public hang of promin jew that shock the commun to new depth . when the iraqi govern final allow jew to leav in 1950 on condit that they forfeit their nation and all their money and properti , the entir commun regist en mass , leav onli 2 , 000 jew by 1952 . & nbsp ; sarah ehrlich contribut to thi report .