a tribut to the great japanes anim director hayao miyazaki is current run at the jerusalem and tel aviv cinemathequ and will continu throughout the passov holiday and until the end of the month . miyazaki & rsquo ; s uniqu work is imagin and fill with beauti imageri , but hi stori also have great emot depth , usual from the point of view of children , that transport viewer into dreamlik world . & nbsp ; while some of these film are avail on stream servic , it is much more intens and enjoy to see them on the big screen . most of hi movi are suitabl for children , although some featur nightmarish scenario that will be too intens for younger kid . the tribut featur hi latest movi , the boy and the heron , about a boy drawn into a strang underworld in the aftermath of hi mother & rsquo ; s death dure world war ii , and which i would not recommend for children under 10 . & nbsp ; but the movi , which won the oscar thi year for best anim featur , is worth see for older children and adult , especi becaus miyazaki , now in hi 80 , ha said it will be hi last film . hi previou film , the wind rise , is about a boy who dream of becom a pilot and instead ha a career as a flight engin , will be shown in the tribut and is also more gear to adult viewer . some of the movi that would be better for young children includ kiki & rsquo ; s deliveri servic , about a young witch who use her talent for ride a broomstick to make friend ; my neighbor totoro , the stori of children who discov a world of enchant forest creatur after their mother is hospit ; and ponyo , about a combin fish and girl who befriend a human child after she is wash ashor . other miyazaki masterpiec includ spirit away , about a girl who is swept into a seri of adventur after her parent are turn into pig on their way to a new home ; princess mononok , about a boy who find himself in the middl of a war between the titular princess and forest creatur ; and howl & rsquo ; s move castl , about a girl who is curs and turn into an old woman at the base of a fantast castl . for the full program , go to the websit of the jerusalem cinemathequ http : // www . jer - cin . org . il / and the tel aviv cinemathequ cinema . co . il