the idf releas expans footag of drone strike against islam jihad target in the gaza strip dure oper break dawn , reveal for the first time the extent of the drone & rsquo ; use in target assassin and precis strike . while some footag wa releas dure the oper , wednesday & rsquo ; s revel is the largest collect of footag of idf drone strike publish by the militari sinc the militari censor began permit isra journalist to report the use of drone in combat strike last month . idf drone strike mortar launcher and islam jihad member in gaza , august 18 , 2022 ( credit : idf spokesperson ' s unit ) the idf stress that drone have becom a substanti part of it oper in recent year , with drone almost constantli conduct reconnaiss mission . about 80 % of the israel air forc & rsquo ; s total oper flight hour come from the drone squadron . the main oper of the drone array take place at the palmahim air base , where some of the drone squadron and the zik unit , the drone unit of the artilleri corp , are locat . an addit squadron that oper the eitan drone is locat at the tel nof base . in the past month , a new drone squadron , which oper the & ldquo ; spark & rdquo ; drone , wa open at the hatzor air base . the drone array oper in cooper with intellig unit . strike are carri out with qualiti and precis to prevent bystand from be harm . idf drone strike palestinian islam jihad member in gaza , august 17 , 2022 ( credit : idf spokesperson ' s unit ) zik unit led drone coordin over gazain the day lead up to the recent oper in gaza , the zik unit oper over the gaza strip and prepar for sever oper scenario , explain idf chief artilleri offic neri horowitz on wednesday . onc it wa decid to launch a preemptiv strike , the unit carri out a wide rang of reconnaiss and attack mission , includ target assassin of senior islam jihad offici , the destruct of rocket and mortar launcher and the assassin of rocket - launch squad . idf drone unit oper dure oper break dawn , august 2022 ( credit : idf spokesperson ' s unit ) the zik unit special in coordin command between differ forc , expos the enemi and strike . horowitz ad that the unit & ldquo ; ha been a signific forc in mani oper over the year and ha an extens combat heritag , ha exist for over two decad and sinc it establish ha been a model for a uniqu multi - arm partnership in the idf . & rdquo ; the command of the land drone unit in the artilleri corp , lt .- col . & ldquo ; m . & rdquo ; ad that & ldquo ; as a ground unit lead the coordin and mission in the current oper with the gaza divis and the southern command , we are work 24 / 7 to ensur the safeti of the resid of the surround area and the state of israel . & rdquo ; when did the isra militari censor allow inform on idf drone strike ? break dawn wa the first oper to take place sinc the militari censor began allow journalist in late juli to report that israel use arm drone to strike target . the idf point out that drone have been use multipl time to strike member of terrorist movement in the gaza strip in recent year . idf drone strike palestinian islam jihad member in gaza , august 17 , 2022 ( credit : idf spokesperson ' s unit ) the intern press ha report the israel air forc & rsquo ; s use of attack drone for at least 20 year , and it ha been extens document in us diplomat cabl as well as at intern air show . the idf , howev , never publicli disclos the use of such platform , and isra journalist who attempt to publish anyth were block by the censor . the first video of idf drone strike dure oper break dawn wa publish on august 7 , the second day of the oper . צה `` ל תקף הלילה משגר רקטות של ארגון הטרור גא `` פ ; במהלך היום הותקפו אתר לייצור רקטות ועמדת שיגור נ `` ט של הארגון . כלי טיס מאויש מרחוק ( כטמ `` ם ) תקף הלילה משגר רקטות של ארגון הטרור גא `` פ ברצועת עזה & gt ; & gt ; pic . twitter . com / jttkj3gkii & mdash ; צבא ההגנה לישראל ( @ idfonlin ) august 7 , 2022 `` all of gaza is line with drone , remot man aircraft that collect intellig 24 hour a day . '' command offic of the palmachim air forc base , brig .- gen . omri dor & ldquo ; all of gaza is line with drone , remot man aircraft that collect intellig 24 hour a day , & rdquo ; said the command offic of the palmahim air forc base , brig .- gen . omri dor . & ldquo ; the world of attack in the drone array is divers , start with a veri surgic event of find a person or a singl launcher and neutral it without caus environment damag and harm to anoth person . & rdquo ; dor ad that the drone array ha excel scan abil , which allow for larg strike like those seen in oper break dawn with a lot of explos and minim collater damag . & ldquo ; more than onc we have stop attack from be carri out , in order to prevent harm innoc . & rdquo ; anna ahronheim contribut to thi report .