it truli feel like we are live insid a chapter of the bibl . yesterday , when news start to come in about the crash of the iranian presid ' s helicopt , i saw that some peopl were quot the vers from the book of proverb , written by king solomon : `` when the wick perish , there is joy . '' when righteou peopl perish from the world , we are sad , and unfortun , thi happen a great deal sinc octob 7th . but on the other hand , here is an opportun to rejoic . when the wick perish from the world & ndash ; there is joy in the world ; it is cleaner , purer , and better here without them . but there is anoth vers , the last vers of the haftarah , that will be read in synagogu dure thi come shabbat : `` behold , i am the lord , the god of all flesh ; is there anyth too hard for me ? '' we are use to ask , `` what will be ? '' and get answer from panel of retir comment and expert . thi vers remind us that we do not exclus determin the plot , and with all due respect to the expert & ndash ; realiti often surpris . sometim , unfortun , we have difficult scenario . still , sometim , event amaz us for the better : the progress of histori toward a posit direct of success that we hadn ' t even imagin . may we be bless with mani more good news stori far beyond what we expect . ha anyon given you anyth to pass along ? in the airport , on my way back from london , i wa ask the usual question by the custom agent : & ldquo ; ha anyon hand you anyth to give to anyon ? & rdquo ; and the truth is that my answer is a resound & ldquo ; ye ! & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; someon & rdquo ; ha given me someth preciou : an abund of support , concern , love , prayer , and feel of uniti from the jewish commun of london directli to israel . it wa a privileg to be among the 40 speaker from israel to travel to britain on behalf of & ldquo ; mizrachi uk & rdquo ; it wa a privileg to see how the huge turmoil sinc octob 7th ha inspir peopl to do more : one person is make aliya ; anoth is organ a ralli ; someon els is organ a special prayer servic , and challah bake ; anoth is bring the famili of hostag to speak here , and yet anoth is rais fund and organ solidar mission to israel . yael jackson , from the london suburb of borehamwood , help organ an event attend by mani more peopl than expect ( as usual , they were look for more chair ! ) . she share the follow insight : & nbsp ; & ldquo ; a few year ago , the covid crisi separ us . never befor had we felt so isol and alon . by contrast , the current crisi ha brought us togeth like never befor . peopl we & rsquo ; ve never seen befor have come to be with us . we & rsquo ; ve never been so unit ! & rdquo ; sderot then and now : spot the differencesthi composit photo of sderot from octob 7th , 2023 , alongsid that of sderot from independ day 2024 , tell our stori . to quot the prophet micah : & ldquo ; rejoic not against me , my enemi ; although i have fallen , i will rise & hellip ; & rdquo ; kosher & hellip ; and the beauti of shabbatat the start of the war , a soldier on reserv duti came to muzi anidg & rsquo ; s restaur and wa disappoint to find that it did not have kosher certif . then and there , muzi decid to make all the necessari chang so that hi restaur would be elig for kosher certif . sinc then , he & rsquo ; s delight ten of thousand of custom in northern israel with hi offer . disprov all the naysay , six month later , when it wa time to renew hi kosher certif , muzi announc to all that he wa continu to run the restaur accord to the law of kashrut and shabbat . & ldquo ; i alway serv fantast delici food , and it wa actual kosher , & rdquo ; muzi wrote to me . & ldquo ; the onli obstacl to receiv kosher certif wa that the busi wa open on shabbat . in the last half year , i learn to love shabbat and the seren that it bring to bodi and soul . our famili onc again experi togeth . the peac and the great atmospher led me to understand that there is noth that can compet with shabbat . & rdquo ; who said that the inspir brought on by the war would be short - live ? a respons to the & lsquo ; holi sticker & rsquo ; sara shapiro teach at the hebrew academi in marlboro , new jersey . in respons to my articl about the & ldquo ; holi sticker & rdquo ; that can be found all over israel with messag from those who lost their live sinc octob 7th , she sent me the follow : & ldquo ; base on your idea , i decid to do an activ with my middl - school student . we prepar a special & lsquo ; yizkor plaqu & rsquo ; and includ select quot in hebrew and english . so , even if we can & rsquo ; t come to israel right now , we & rsquo ; ll still be abl to benefit from the impact of those messag . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; translat by yehoshua siskin , janin muller sherr . want to read more by sivan rahav meir ? visit sivanrahavmeir . com