haifa mayor yona yahav reveal at a toast in the sephard hous hotel in jerusalem hi intent to name a neighborhood in the citi after presid joe biden as a token of appreci for hi support for israel , isra media report on tuesday . dure the tradit passov toast ceremoni of the sephard hous , yahav reveal for the first time hi intent to name a neighborhood in the citi after us presid joe biden . a similar propos led to the creation of ramat trump in the golan in 2020 . & nbsp ; the mayor pledg that he would introduc jewish diaspora heritag studi into the curriculum of haifa school so that `` we would all realli know each other `` . as part of hi desir for a real connect between all the peopl who live in haifa , yahav also plan to implement the studi of spoken arab in all school start from the second grade . anoth distinguish guest at the ceremoni wa haim cohen , the chairman of the world spanish feder in israel . along with cohen came most of the head of the organ includ in the feder . attorney yosef gilaur , chairman of the haifa sephard jewish commun committe , did not hide hi excit : `` haim is a mentor and a true friend for the commun committe and a close friend for me person . '' sad , worri , resili and comfortin hi word for the holiday , gilaur detail the sad and worri that we all experi . at the same time , he also offer consol : `` we knew how to overcom cruel enemi and seriou crise in the past . we have mental strength . if we cling to despair , the flower of spring will not grow . if we cling to hope and nurtur it , we will have a real reviv . '' yossi azari , chairman of the sephard hous ' s day center , also spoke at the ceremoni and emphas the center ' s activ ' contribut to the commun in haifa and beyond . netali ben , the ceo of the sephardi hous , discuss the hardship lead up to the ceremoni and the import of maintain tradit in deal with the complex realiti . she also compliment the employe : `` we maintain emot and team resili even after the horror of 7 / 10 . we continu to provid the tenant with wholeheart servic and also a sens of secur . '' at the end of the ceremoni , all those present express hope that all the hostag would return to us soon and that we would all have a happi and peac holiday .