cnn hire a photojournalist who just three day befor post video and photo of himself insid israel dure the hama massacr , includ with an isra tank and a room of bloodi , dead bodi . gaza photojournalist hassan eslaiah cross into israel on octob 7 to document the hama massacr of more than 1 , 200 isra . hi photo from the scene appear on sever intern news outlet , includ the associ press , the jerusalem - base watchdog honestreport reveal last week . & nbsp ; cnn had also hire eslaiah . the watchdog & rsquo ; s stori spark a seri of question and intern outcri , ultim lead to hi be let go from the two institut . & nbsp ; howev , cnn said in a statement last week that their work relationship with the freelanc began after the octob 7 terrorist attack on israel , on octob 10 . it also note that despit it decis to stop work with eslaiah , it did not have & ldquo ; ani reason to doubt the journalist accuraci of the work he ha done for us , & rdquo ; as report by ynet and confirm by the jerusalem post . & nbsp ; the post confirm that eslaiah wa not fire for hi work on the 7th but for a separ but relat concern . it wa unclear if cnn knew about eslaiah & rsquo ; s post on telegram befor offer him work . & nbsp ; cnn told the post it will not be comment further on the matter . cross the line : did a photojournalist support the massacr of isra ? the issu goe beyond issu of accuraci or bia but is more about the line that get cross when a photojournalist appear to act with delight in respons to wit the kill of civilian , while work for a major news outlet . honestreport show a screenshot of a now - remov post of the photojournalist on x stand in front of the isra tank without a press vest or helmet . the tweet read , & ldquo ; live from insid the gaza strip settlement . & rdquo ; a similar imag still appear on hi telegram page . honestreport also publish a separ imag from well befor the massacr show eslaiah buddi up with hama leader yahya sinwar . howev , by scroll through eslaiah & rsquo ; s person telegram channel , the post ha found that eslaiah post much more than a tank on the 7th , includ item that indic that not onli did he like know about the plan massacr befor it began at around 6 : 30 a . m . , but that he support the death of the innoc isra he watch be murder . eslaiah & rsquo ; s first post on octob 7 wa at 5 : 59 a . m . : & ldquo ; we wake up to the great gift of god , & rdquo ; he post , accord to a translat by chatgpt . & ldquo ; the spirit ha return , and our bless have increas . & rdquo ; within half an hour , he is post about the rocket be launch at israel and the sound of the iron dome intercept them over khan yuni . then , between 6 : 55 a . m . and 8 : 30 a . m . , he post multipl variat : & ldquo ; to follow the latest news moment by moment , follow me on my media platform . & rdquo ; at 8 : 29 a . m . , he appear & ldquo ; live from insid the settlement near the gaza strip & rdquo ; with a pictur of a burn tank in the background . at 8 : 36 a . m . , after wit nearli 10 minut of the massacr , he post imag from the scene with a vers from the koran : & ldquo ; and on that day , the believ will rejoic in the victori of allah & rdquo ; and the hashtag & ldquo ; # aqsaflood . & rdquo ; at 9 : 25 a . m . , the most gruesom of post is reveal : a video with hi watermark : & ldquo ; film by hassan eslaiah & rdquo ; in the center , depict a room full of dead , bloodi bodi . & nbsp ; thi particular video doe not appear to have been publish anywher els . in the background , you hear a calm voic that sound like hi from other video , and is spoken in hi arab dialect , state the follow : & ldquo ; [ anim ] carcass , carcass . god is great . thi is the path to jerusalem . & rdquo ; there is anoth video at 9 : 49 a . m . of hi stand in front of burn jewish home as terrorist run by . and a final video one minut later of hi leav israel on the back of someon & rsquo ; s motorbik . & nbsp ; is thi the kind of photojournalist that major news outlet should be hire ? what kind of vet process should be requir befor hire someon in a foreign countri ? perhap these are the question that all intern outlet should now be ask themselv .