the palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) organ announc on saturday that 19 of it member were kill dure the 11 - day of fight between israel and the gaza - base terrorist group . the hama - run health ministri , meanwhil , announc that 243 palestinian were kill and more than 1 , 900 injur dure the fight with israel . it said that the victim includ 66 children and 39 women . it wa not clear whether the figur includ hama and pij member . the pij & rsquo ; s militari wing , al - qud brigad , said in a statement that it member were kill & ldquo ; while perform their jihad ( holi war ) dure the & lsquo ; sword of jerusalem & rsquo ; battl . & rdquo ; the group publish the name of all the slain pij member . they includ senior militari oper such as husam abu - harbid , 37 , command of the northern gaza strip region , sameh al - mamlouk , 34 , command of the rocket unit in the northern gaza strip , and moham abu al - ata , 30 and kamal qureiqi , 34 , senior command of one of the group & rsquo ; s rocket unit in the gaza strip . photo of the slain pij member dress in militari uniform appear in the statement publish by the al - qud brigad . & ldquo ; the al - qud brigad affirm that their blood will remain a shine light for the mujahedin ( warrior ) toward the path of glori and digniti , & rdquo ; the statement read . & ldquo ; we will proceed with the path of resist until the liber of all belov palestin . & rdquo ; shortli after the ceasefir between israel and the gaza - base faction went into effect on friday morn , pij gener - secretari ziyad al - nakhaleh and hama leader ismail haniyeh receiv separ phone call from hossein salami , command - in - chief of iran & rsquo ; s islam revolutionari guard corp , congratul them on the & ldquo ; big victori & rdquo ; achiev by the palestinian dure the fight . salami express iran & rsquo ; s readi to provid the palestinian terrorist group & ldquo ; with whatev help necessari in the field , & rdquo ; accord to a statement by the iranian tasnim new agenc . speak to haniyeh , the iranian militari command said that hi countri is readi & ldquo ; to provid all kind of assist to the palestinian nation and resist forc in all area and it will spare no effort in thi regard . & rdquo ; dure the call with the pij leader , salami stress that the islam revolutionari guard corp & ldquo ; will never leav the palestinian nation alon . & rdquo ; in a speech on friday , haniyeh , who is base in qatar , congratul the palestinian on the & ldquo ; great victori by the brave resist . & rdquo ; he said that & ldquo ; the palestinian peopl everywher prove to the whole world that al - aqsa mosqu belong to us and that jerusalem is a red line . thi victori is one phase in the conflict with the zionist enemi . & rdquo ; he ad : & ldquo ; thank god who ha brought happi to the heart of our peopl , our nation , and the free peopl of the world . the gaza strip erupt to defend jerusalem and al - aqsa mosqu . & rdquo ;