after he made isra fall in love with the wonder of greek cuisin anew and sold more than 100 , 000 copi of the cookbook he publish about thi cuisin , the time ha come to go on a journey : tzviki eshet and geo tour team up for culinari tour to athen and the island of kea . the first voyag will depart between may 24 - 27 . thi is a 4 - day journey that will begin on friday , may 24 with an earli land in athen and will close late at night on monday , may 27 . the main event will take place in athen and it surround , where eshet and the greco team promis to reveal to the particip restaur and tavern hidden from view where mostli the local hang out . an in - depth tour will be conduct in the huge food market of athen and the port citi of piraeu - which guarante an encount with artisan produc base on long - stand product tradit . they will also go through the provinc around athen and discov the extens culinari scene that take place there . in order to get to know the real raw materi , the greek ' `` asli , ” the journey will pass through variou point , among them : in the ancient bakeri in greec , a fourth gener of tradit bake . they will visit a wineri that special in the product of retsina wine and in order to explor the tast of the sea , they will arriv at a secret tavern locat on the shore of a magic cove , where everyth on the plate ha risen an hour earlier from the sea . and how is it possibl without greek music ? there will be a lot of it too , in sever genr that make the heart happi . the rural cuisin of greec will also receiv attent when the group goe for a full day to the island of kea ( about an hour and a quarter sail from athen ) . the first part of the day will be dedic to a tour of the island ' s villag and a visit to the local produc . later , at a rural farm , the group will go through a privat cook workshop not by profession chef but by `` mama `` who will reveal some of the knowledg and secret that are pass down from gener to gener . the rest of the day will be fill with relax activ , with the group be host after lunch and dinner at kea retreat - the retreat that open 3 year ago on the island and is current rank in “ voug ” magazin as a must - visit hotel . entrepreneur and restaurateur zviki eshet is one of the isra most identifi with greec and it food cultur . in 2012 , he open the first greco , which becam an empir and current ha 10 branch that host over 5 , 000 peopl a day . the cost of the trip includ accommod in a luxuri boutiqu hotel , all the culinari experi , particip in a privat cook workshop , a visit to the night club and more for 3 , 295 euro per person . the journey wa creat and produc by maya karvat , owner of the agenc maya karvat commun and content . to regist pleas visit the websit