with the arriv of holocaust remembr day , the intern fellowship of christian and jew ( ifcj ) ha reaffirm it support for the holocaust survivor commun through it digniti and fellowship program , which support 17 , 000 of israel & rsquo ; s poorest elderli over the age of 80 , includ 8 , 500 holocaust survivor , in 54 municip across the countri . the program is commit to provid holocaust survivor with food everi week for the rest of their live . addit , it enabl survivor to engag in variou social and practic servic . much - need aid for holocaust survivor & nbsp ; the support provid by the organ is vital , as a 2023 studi that assess the need of the survivor commun by the foundat for the welfar of holocaust victim found that 22 % of those who requir financi support were forc to give up necess due to lack of fund , includ the use of electr or medic equip , medic test , cloth , and other basic need . 97 - year - old merra vinogradov , a holocaust survivor who regularli receiv food deliveri from the ifcj , explain how the fellowship had help her , provid her with essenti need and more . & ldquo ; i don & rsquo ; t need much and have alway manag with littl . the food deliveri from the fellowship mean that i don & rsquo ; t have to worri about not have enough money for food . i can buy meat , fruit , and veget and don & rsquo ; t feel the lack of food like i did dure my youth , & rdquo ; she explain . dedic to their mission & nbsp ; accord to the organ , & ldquo ; support and care for holocaust survivor is at the veri heart of the intern fellowship of christian and jew & rsquo ; 40 - year mission . & ldquo ; our respons , and the respons of our hundr of thousand of support around the world , is to care for thi commun , with digniti and respect , in everi way possibl while we still have the chanc , & rdquo ; explain yael eckstein , presid of the ifcj . eckstein then elabor on her firm commit to continu the organ & rsquo ; s work for as long as it can . & ldquo ; we will make sure that holocaust survivor are not forgotten and are provid with at least their basic need until that tragic day when the last one leav our world , & rdquo ; eckstein conclud . & ldquo ; these are peopl who suffer the worst and experienc unspeak sacrific and loss , and we owe it to them to spread the messag of & lsquo ; never again & rsquo ; through action in a way that honor their live . & rdquo ;