north of the gaza strip , the surf is pound the beach south of ashkelon . one of these beach is known as zikim , and it share a name with a kibbutz on a hill abov it . thi is a beauti area . there is a small pond and stream near the beach , and dune with small stout layer of brush stretch up from the waterfront toward the east . the dune form a kind of frame to the area , set off the kibbutz and a road that run down to the sea from an industri area of ashkelon . today , thi area is desert . the beach , which onc host the tone bodi of young men and women from the area who came to enjoy the spot , and the fishermen who would come on weekend to tri their hand at a catch , are gone . it is all gone becaus hama attack thi beach on octob 7 , when it invad two dozen point along the border with israel and carri out it massacr . i came to thi area on octob 8 , tri to reach the coastal area becaus there are sever idf post here . i thought that with the war unfold , it might be a good place to find a stori . at the time , i didn & rsquo ; t know there wa still fight go on in thi area , and terrorist were lurk in the bush and dune . i learn the area wa an activ combat zone when i came upon the bodi of two terrorist , and a still - run savannah van park next to them , on octob 8 near the fenc that run around kibbutz zikim . the fight here continu for day . on octob 11 , sever soldier from the maglan special unit were kill in thi area . flag with their name are now drape on a concret shelter along the road . insid , their comrad have written their name and left candl and a kippah in their memori . six month laterit ha been six month sinc that day . octob 8 wa the second day of the war . six month later , i wa in kibbutz zikim , look out onto the road where i had encount the dead terrorist and the van . a member of the commun recal the same scene unfold on octob 7 from insid zikim . although terrorist were abl to attack and infiltr the idf post near the border , kill soldier and massacr civilian on zikim beach , the kibbutz itself wa save by the quick respons of it emerg respons team and soldier . today , the kibbutz seem like it is slowli return to life , and some of the resid have return . the commun is laid out in a larg circl , with hous face the perimet fenc , look toward the sea . it & rsquo ; s bucol and beauti . it is also fill with peacock for some reason . the bird appar escap from a local small zoo and have infest the commun for year . becaus there are so few human resid , the anim seem to have the run of the place . i spent octob 7 and 8 travel along the border with gaza , see commun that face the brunt of the attack on octob 7 and also see those that were save from the massacr . each commun ha a stori & ndash ; stori of tragedi , braveri , and sometim good luck that kept peopl safe . six month after the war began , it & rsquo ; s import to recal that these commun are still evacu , their resid scatter around israel . in mani case , the commun tri to stick togeth , but they face an uncertain futur . on the afternoon of octob 8 , the idf said it had evacu be & rsquo ; eri , nahal oz , netiv ha & rsquo ; asara , and zikim . while zikim had been save from the massacr , nearbi netiv ha & rsquo ; asara , which is directli on the border with gaza , wa breach , and the terrorist murder numer member of the commun . the terrorist also carri out massacr at be & rsquo ; eri and nahal oz . nahal oz is one of the hardest commun & rsquo ; s to reach today becaus it is close to the border , and there is an idf checkpoint on the road lead to it . all of these commun now have soldier at their front gate , and permiss is requir to enter . nahal oz is a uniqu case . to get to it , the road snake down by the border . sever year ago , a larg concret wall wa erect to shield the road from gaza , and the wall wa then paint with pastor scene and a giant mural indic that the commun wa celebr 70 year sinc it found . unlik zikim , there is a sens it will take time befor anyon can return to thi area . on octob 8 , the idf also evacu nir am , mefalsim , kfar aza , gevim , or haner , ivim , yad mordechai , karmiya , kerem shalom , kissufim , holit , sufa , nirim , nir oz , ein hashlosha , nir yitzhak , magen , re & rsquo ; im , sa & rsquo ; ad , and alumim . today , these commun have the same struggl that zikim and nahal oz face . their resid are live in differ part of israel , and it is not clear when servic will be avail for peopl to return to or if peopl will feel secur enough to return . in some commun , peopl return onli for a few hour a day or sever day a week . they might have job nearbi , or they come to tend a garden or to do some kind of other work for the commun . in the commun dine hall , where there onc would have been crowd or laughter , or plan for commun event , there is often silenc or onli a few peopl huddl to eat . it & rsquo ; s hard to make sens of thi . on the one hand , the war in gaza feel like it is wind down . at the highest point in zikim , for instanc , there is an old home built in 1920 by an arab notabl who had a citru grove near here . from the roof of the old state home , where sandbag are pile , probabl from the earli day of the war , one can see into gaza . smoke rise , and there is a rat - tat of machin - gun fire . but the sound of artilleri and explos is no longer common . further down the border , thi is not alway the case . near the site of the supernova music festiv massacr , the sound of artilleri is present . everywher along the border , the buzz of drone is clear . but the heavi militari presenc of the first month of the war is gone . it & rsquo ; s not normal , becaus normal would mean the civilian resid have return . it & rsquo ; s abnorm . but it & rsquo ; s also not war , becaus much of the war seem to have paus , like a countri take a deep breath and then wonder what to do next . what come next at kibbutz sufa , for instanc ? it sit near the border and feel forlorn . at nearbi nir yitzhak , there are squar hay bale stack in small mountain in warehous . clearli , the agricultur work ha gone on at a fever pitch . in fact , that & rsquo ; s anoth contrast on the border . work goe on everywher in the field . in some case , it is done by foreign worker , who can be seen ride motor bike to their work . small thailand flag flutter from the bike . in one field , a giant machin with long metal arm , like a massiv mechan bug in some kind of futur apocalypt movi , ambl along water the field . it wasn & rsquo ; t even clear if there wa a person on the machin , bring a sens that the futur here hang in the balanc between civilian return and machin take over . thi is not what the kibbutz pioneer of the late 1940 and 1950 had in mind when these commun were found . they live in tent and farm . they took their bolt - action rifl , and later automat , to the field with them . they danc , and sang , and play sport . they serv in elit unit . they grew old . their descend want to return , but so far , it is mostli the older peopl who express steadfast and confid . those with children who were abandon for mani hour on octob 7 , and had to leav on octob 8 , face an uncertain futur . how can they return and trust the state again to protect them ? the state hasn & rsquo ; t return the hostag held in gaza . there & rsquo ; s also a sens the govern ha abandon these commun , that there is lack of care for them , and that there is no govern here . they are fend for themselv , like in the era of the british mandat . these commun were onc the heart of the state & rsquo ; s endeavor to carv out the border of israel . but now they feel like they have becom the ultim peripheri . & nbsp ;