on wednesday , prime minist benjamin netanyahu and leader of the haredi parti fail to come up with a new compromis on the controversi issu of the haredi exempt from idf servic that would enjoy legal back from attorney - gener gali baharav - miara . the attempt at a new compromis were aim at convinc the suprem court & ndash ; ahead of a midnight deadlin & ndash ; to give the govern a few more month to have the plan pass into law . the attorney - gener is the govern & rsquo ; s legal repres in the suprem court , and she request that the court give her until 2 : 00 p . m . on thursday to file the govern ' s offici respons . accord to isra media outlet , a leak draft of the respons reveal that baharav - miara intend to claim that the state is no longer author to avoid recruit yeshiva student , and should begin the process of draft them from april 1 onward . regard state fund to yeshivot , the a - g is expect to request that the fund ceas but not immedi , so as to give the yeshivot time to adapt to the chang . the govern & rsquo ; s propos ha been view as too weak becaus the haredim have refus to commit to specif quota number of drafte per year or to ani financi or crimin sanction for those who do not compli . baharav - miara said that without some minim number and sanction , it would be hopeless for her to tri to defend the bill befor the high court of justic . it wa expect that the govern would ask for an addit postpon , given the inabl to reach a deal to keep the govern intact , with some report suggest a request for an addit 10 day . it wa unlik that the high court would give the govern much of a postpon , if ani , and in the past , the high court ha often onli grant a shorter extens than whatev the govern had request to keep up the pressur . the court could also just let the issu play out at the hear schedul for thursday and demand answer from the govern throughout that hear . in the most extrem case , the court could order an immedi univers draft until the govern put in place an altern . fuch blame attorney - gener ' s officecabinet secretari yossi fuch wrote a letter to govern minist on wednesday in which he blame the attorney - gener & rsquo ; s offic for the govern & rsquo ; s inabl to pass a decis on time . fuch argu that the a - g & rsquo ; s offic initi refus to support the decis for what it describ as a & ldquo ; procedur & rdquo ; reason , name that the decis did not includ an opinion by the defens ministri . on march 24 , howev , the a - g & rsquo ; s offic again refus on the same ground , say that the lack of a defens ministri opinion serv as a & ldquo ; legal impedi . & rdquo ; fuch argu in the letter that the a - g & rsquo ; s offic contradict itself and had not made it clear in advanc that the defens ministri opinion wa legal obligatori . he ad that the reason the defens ministri opinion wa unattain wa becaus defens minist yoav gallant wa not particip in the procedur . & ldquo ; the door to the vault of govern approv ha been lock by the attorney gener & rsquo ; s offic and there is no key sinc , from a technic standpoint , it is imposs to receiv the profession underpin from the defens ministri , & rdquo ; fuch wrote . & ldquo ; until thi moment , the attorney gener & rsquo ; s offic ha not point out ani core problem or problem whatsoev in the govern & rsquo ; s decis and ha not rais a & lsquo ; black flag & rsquo ; over it , & rdquo ; fuch accus . gallant refut the claim that hi ministri had not cooper , say in a written statement soon after fuch & rsquo ; s letter wa publish that the alleg were & ldquo ; bias and fals . & rdquo ; accord to gallant , & ldquo ; everi request that wa receiv regard cooper with the profession echelon in the defens ministri or a piec of data regard the conscript law wa approv and will continu to be approv . & rdquo ; howev , the defens minist repeat a prior pledg that he would onli support a bill that wa support by & ldquo ; the entir & rdquo ; emerg govern , which includ minist - without - portolio benni gantz , head of the nation uniti parti . opposit leader mk yair lapid said in respons to fuch & rsquo ; s letter , & ldquo ; the govern & rsquo ; s wonder abil to evad ani respons is impress , and tonight , who is to blame that there is no conscript law ? the attorney gener ? you got it wrong : the blame is on those who are attempt to whitewash draft - dodg and discrimin between group base on blood . & rdquo ; a sourc from unit torah judaism express the parti & rsquo ; s frustrat with the prime minist . & ldquo ; he [ netanyahu ] sign an agreement . we want to pass [ a new conscript bill ] befor the govern & rsquo ; s format ; he delay . we agre [ to pass the bill ] befor the budget [ pass on may 23 ] ; he delay . if he want a govern , he must ensur that yeshiva student can studi torah , & rdquo ; the sourc told the jerusalem post in a text messag . gantz also threaten earlier thi week to leav the govern if an unsatisfactori conscript bill pass into law . in term of viabl altern and compromis that the govern could adopt , there is a spectrum of idea that other parti have present , and there could also be variat on those propos . the closest way to a compromis would be some variat on gantz & rsquo ; s propos of all haredim have to do nation servic , with a more symbol number serv in the idf . thi would not truli address all of the idf servic inequ that have anger the public for decad , but it would at least show the major of the popul that the haredim were readi to contribut to the nation destini in a physic and quantifi way . ( haredim claim they care for the spiritu susten of the nation ) . also , if more isra from other sector were be pull out of necessari job , the haredim step in with nation servic would cover some of that gap . advoc of the gantz compromis say it would temper some econom impact and start a social transform within the haredi commun by connect and contribut more to the nation . in practic , idf sourc have said they can not integr all of the draft - elig haredim and that it would probabl take year to do so , if at all doabl . they explain that there are too mani social and educ issu to work through to take in haredim in anyth other than gradual number . & nbsp ; abov a certain volum , it is not even clear that the idf want to spend the amount of resourc necessari to integr so mani haredim at onc . the lack of an agreement about how to solv the crisi is part of what ha continu to allow the consist rejectionist haredi posit to prevail over the last sever month , not to mention for decad befor octob 7 . & nbsp ;