the world & rsquo ; s climat is chang & ndash ; again . but instead of get warmer the last time like it is now , in around 6 , 200 bce , it wa get colder . a drought result and launch what wa call the 8 . 2ka ( kiloyear & ndash ; thousand of year & ndash ; ago ) , which began about 8 , 200 year ago and last for the next two to four centuri in the southern levant that includ modern - day israel , the palestinian territori , jordan , lebanon , southern syria and the sinai desert . until now , archaeologist thought that thi sudden cool in global climat led to the widespread abandon of coastal settlement in the southern levant . howev , research at the univers of haifa , bar - ilan univers ( biu ) in ramat gan , and the univers of california at san diego have produc new evid suggest that at least one villag formerli thought abandon not onli remain occupi but thrive throughout thi period . they said the studi help fill a gap in our understand of the earli settlement of the eastern mediterranean coastlin . they have just publish their studi in the journal antiqu under the titl & ldquo ; continu and climat chang : the neolith coastal settlement of habonim north , israel . & rdquo ; the villag of habonim north wa discov off the carmel coast in the mid - 2010 and later survey by a team led by the univers of haifa & rsquo ; s dr . ehud arkin shalev . the studi wa led by prof . assaf yasur - landau , head of the leon recanati institut for maritim studi at the univers of haifa , and roey nickelsberg , a doctor candid there . biu prof . ehud weiss and dr . suembikya frumin also particip . & ldquo ; thi studi help fill a gap in our understand of the earli settlement of the eastern mediterranean coastlin , & rdquo ; said prof . thoma levi , a co - author on the paper , co - director of uc san diego & rsquo ; s center for cyber - archaeolog and sustain ( cca ) and chairman of archaeolog of ancient israel and neighbor land in the anthropolog depart of the univers & rsquo ; s graduat divis . unearth the levantin coastlin & ldquo ; it deal with human resili , & rdquo ; he said . an experienc scuba diver , levi spent 40 year carri out archaeolog field work in the desert of israel and jordan . befor it excav and analysi , there wa littl evid for human habit along the southern levantin coast dure the 8 . 2ka event . the dig , which involv a week - long , 24 / 7 coordin effort between the partner in the two countri , wa the first formal excav of the submerg site . anim bonesl by yasur - landau and nickelsberg , the intern team excav the site use a combin of sediment dredg and sampl , as well as photogrammetri and 3d model . team member uncov potteri shard or & ldquo ; sherd & rdquo ; ; stone tool , includ ceremoni weapon and fish - net weight ; anim and plant remain ; and architectur . use radiocarbon date , the research test the recov bone of wild and domest anim , the char seed of wild plant , crop like wheat and lentil , and weed that tend to accompani these crop . their result trace these organ materi back to the earli potteri neolith ( epn ) , which coincid with both the invent of potteri and the 8 . 2ka event . potteri sherd , stone tool and architectur in the villag were also evid of activ at the site to the epn and , surprisingli , to the late potteri neolith , when the villag wa thought to have been abandon . as for how the villag like weather the worst of the climat instabl , the research point to sign of an economi that diversifi from farm to includ maritim cultur and trade within a distinct cultur ident . evid includ fish - net weight ; tool made of basalt , a stone that doe not natur occur along thi part of the eastern mediterranean coast ; and a ceremoni mace head . & ldquo ; our studi show that the earli potteri neolith societi display multi - layer resili that enabl it to withstand the 8 . 2ka crisi , & rdquo ; note yasur - landau , a senior author on the paper . & ldquo ; i wa happili surpris by the rich of the find , from potteri to organ remain . & rdquo ; although scientist debat the caus of the 8 . 2ka event , some specul that it began with the final collaps of the laurentid ice sheet , which shape much of the north american landscap in it retreat from modern - day canada and the northern us . as it melt , the ice sheet would have chang the flow of ocean current and affect heat transport , lead to the observ drop in global temperatur . mani of the activ uncov at the villag , includ the creation of cultur distinct potteri and trade , form the basi for later urban societi . & ldquo ; to me , what & rsquo ; s import is to chang how we look at thing , & rdquo ; said nickelsberg . & ldquo ; mani archaeologist like to look at the collaps of civil . mayb it & rsquo ; s time to start look at the develop of human cultur , rather than it destruct and abandon .