minist to the right and left of prime minist benjamin netanyahu issu duel threat on tuesday to leav the govern over the possibl impend decis of whether or not to move forward with a deal with hama to releas some of the hostag be held in gaza . the statement came after us offici said on monday that new progress had been made in negoti for a & lsquo ; humanitarian & rsquo ; deal to releas between 20 to 40 hostag , in which israel reportedli would suspend it plan to enter rafah , the last major hama stronghold that the idf ha yet to attack , as well as enabl gazan to return to gaza citi and releas hundr of palestinian prison . the far - right flank of israel & rsquo ; s govern , financ minist bezalel smotrich , and nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir press netanyahu to shun the deal and move forward with an invas of rafah and threaten to leav the govern if the prime minist decid otherwis . in a video statement follow a close - door meet with netanyahu on tuesday afternoon , ben - gvir said that the prime minist had promis that israel would invad rafah , that the war would not end , and that there will not be a & ldquo ; reckless & rdquo ; deal . he ad that he believ that netanyahu & ldquo ; understand what the consequ are if these thing do not happen , & rdquo ; hint that he would leav the govern if such a deal wa made . smotrich , in a press confer , demand that netanyahu not wave a & ldquo ; white flag & rdquo ; of surrend by agre to the egyptian - broker deal . he said that israel wa face a fork in the road with & ldquo ; no middl & rdquo ; , in which it need to choos between & ldquo ; decis victori & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; defeat in the war and humili , & rdquo ; and said that he wa will to pay a & ldquo ; polit price & rdquo ; if netanyahu decid to move forward with the deal . he ad that the govern did not have a & ldquo ; right to exist & rdquo ; if it went through with the hostag deal as it stood . gadi eisenkot respond & nbsp ; in respons to both minist , nation uniti minist - without - portfolio gadi eisenkot issu a rare statement warn that he would not be a partner in a govern that make decis base on & ldquo ; polit consider & rdquo ; . & ldquo ; the cabinet defin the goal of the war six month ago , & rdquo ; eisenkot said in a written statement that he also post on facebook . & ldquo ; in the past day , two cabinet member have been use polit threat to commit extort . thi is a seriou phenomenon that harm israel & rsquo ; s nation secur . i will onli be a partner in a govern that make decis base on the nation interest of the state of israel , and not on polit consider . & rdquo ; dure a meet earlier on tuesday with forum of hostag famili and famili of fallen soldier who are affili with the right and support invad rafah , netanyahu pledg that israel would invad the citi with or without a deal . & ldquo ; the idea that we will halt the war befor achiev all of it goal is out of the question . we will enter rafah and we will elimin the hama battalion there & ndash ; with or without a deal , in order to achiev the total victori , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . accord to the press statement of the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic , & ldquo ; the prime minist listen to their call to continu achiev the goal of the war and to withstand the intern pressur . & rdquo ; the two forum that met with the prime minist were the hope forum , which includ famili of hostag , and the heroism forum , which includ famili of fallen soldier . both are affili with the right and have larg call to increas militari pressur in gaza . these are separ from the larger hostag and miss famili forum , which ha taken an increasingli critic stand against the govern . opposit leader mk yair lapid said in respons to ben - gvir , & ldquo ; the state of israel ha becom hostag to peopl who are crazi and irrespons . thi can not continu . a minist with a crimin record stand in the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic and threaten the prime minist about the consequ if he doe not do as he is told . ben - gvir is say to the whole world and the whole region that netanyahu is weak and work for him . it is unbeliev that he wa not fire on the spot . & rdquo ; the coalit current includ 72 knesset member . ben - gvir and smotrich togeth have 14 seat , and without them the coalit will be left with 58 knesset member , and will no longer have a major in the 120 - member knesset . & nbsp ;