the idf shot down a drone belong to hezbollah which wa head from lebanon toward israel ' s territori water last week , just day befor three drone were shot down while head toward the karish ga field off the coast of northern israel , the idf spokesperson ' s unit announc on wednesday . the drone wa drop a far distanc from the maritim border , without pose a threat or danger to israel . earlier on wednesday , the lebanes al - akhbar news report that hezbollah had launch a drone toward the ga field last wednesday , three day befor three drone belong to the terrorist movement were shot down by the idf . hezbollah - affili al - manar tv report ali shoeib claim on wednesday that the drone wa not down and return without be hit . on saturday , the idf announc that it had shot down three unman aerial vehicl launch by hezbollah toward israel & rsquo ; s econom water over the mediterranean sea . one of the three uav wa shot down by an f - 16 and two other were down by the naval barak 8 medium - rang surfac - to - air missil system on the in eilat , mark the first time the system wa use against aerial threat . the uav were identifi at an earli stage in their flight by the idf , monitor throughout their flight and intercept at the most appropri oper point by the fighter jet and missil ship . maritim border demarc talk continueth latest report of a drone be intercept come amid continu effort by israel and lebanon to reach an agreement concern the demarc of the maritim border between the two countri in indirect talk mediat by the us . lebanes presid michel aoun state on wednesday that a solut regard the maritim border demarc negoti with israel would be reach soon , say `` i believ that we have reach an understand with the american who are mediat between us and israel , '' accord to lebanes media . '' the result of the demarc will be posit for the benefit of both parti , and if the atmospher wa not posit , we would not have follow the negoti process , '' ad aoun . on tuesday , hezbollah - alli free patriot movement head gebran bassil state that there is a `` seriou opportun `` in the maritim border talk and that the gap in the disput wa narrow , but stress that the solut are `` still not clear `` and that lebanon should insist on an equat in which israel would get the karish ga field if lebanon get the qana ga field . '' most importantli , the demarc is to allow us to dig , and thi is the right time for lebanon to implement just diplomat solut for it , while use it strength , and we are not weak , '' said bassil . lebanes offici have express outrag at hezbollah ' s launch of drone toward the ga field , stress that the countri is commit to avoid provoc dure negoti . '' lebanon consid that ani action outsid the framework of the state ' s respons and the diplomat context in which the negoti are happen is unaccept and expos ( lebanon ) to unnecessari risk , '' a statement by the offic of prime minist - design najib mikati offic said on monday . lebanes media report earlier thi week that us mediat amo hochstein had warn lebanes offici that the drone launch could harm the negoti . anna ahronheim contribut to thi report .