tension are elev in jerusalem amid sever devast terrorist attack in the citi over the past month . & nbsp ; the first , on a shabbat even in the neveh ya & rsquo ; acov neighborhood , left seven isra dead as they depart synagogu to go home to their meal . the next day , a 13 - year - old palestinian open fire on jewish worship in the citi of david , leav two civilian wound . shortli befor sundown on friday last week , a terrorist ram hi vehicl into isra at a bu stop , kill three & ndash ; includ two brother age six and eight . and there were two stab attack thi past week , one by a 14 - year - old . thi is alongsid record number of palestinian be kill by idf forc in the west bank dure ensu raid and arrest , lead to a gener feel of uneas by everyon in the holi citi . the magazin spoke with a rang of individu in the capit to find out how they feel , what they are do differ , and where they see thing go . what did isra think about the violenc in jerusalem ? view were divers , depend on where they stood in the spectrum & ndash ; whether nativ - born isra , immigr , secular or religi . for exampl , samantha levi , an activist who move to israel nine year ago , said that & ldquo ; the circumst in jerusalem lead me to seek out train in self - defens and how to handl secur threat . & rdquo ; for nativ isra or those who have live in the countri for a long time , recent event have rekindl horrid memori from the day of the second intifada in the earli 2000 . noam elia , an isra - american who grew up in jerusalem and return six month ago after live in new york for a decad , said that the situat is not like then , when buse were blow up nearli everi week . he ad , howev , that thing are move in a danger direct . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; i rememb dure the second intifada ride my scooter up agrippa street and wa about to turn into the nahalot neighborhood when i saw a polic offic at the end of the street . i decid not to turn , and a few second later a huge explos went off . it is scari . & rdquo ; noam elia & ldquo ; i rememb dure the second intifada ride my scooter up agrippa street and wa about to turn into the nahalot neighborhood when i saw a polic offic at the end of the street . i decid not to turn , and a few second later a huge explos went off . it is scari . & rdquo ; although bomb are not go off today , & ldquo ; you have to keep an eye out for suspici peopl or activ . jerusalem is the center of all of thi . & rdquo ; emanuel , a tech entrepreneur , recal what it wa like to grow up in jerusalem . & ldquo ; you are expos to persist conflict from a young age . i rememb be in school in the heart of the citi , and you could hear the sound of attack while sit in class . & ldquo ; the constant state of alert , whether at bu stop or while take public transport , ha becom a way of life for me . despit thi , i have not let it sway my choic of make jerusalem my home . & rdquo ; anoth resid , isabella swart , said there is a sens of anxieti in the air but that & ldquo ; israel is a super - resili countri . we are not afraid becaus we are in our land with our peopl . & rdquo ; she continu with a suggest to add cement barrier on sidewalk to prevent ram . & nbsp ; elya cowland of ramot , where the two children were kill last week , spoke somberli about an attack that wa close to home . & ldquo ; despit not know the victim , i feel a heighten sens of tragedi and loss . when terror struck my neighborhood , the numb i usual feel regard these attack shatter . i saw with complet clariti the heinous and horrif natur of the event . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; despit not know the victim , i feel a heighten sens of tragedi and loss . when terror struck my neighborhood , the numb i usual feel regard these attack shatter . i saw with complet clariti the heinous and horrif natur of the event . & rdquo ; elya cowlandrabbi yehoshua pfeffer of ramot also spoke about the attack as he wa head to the shiva for the victim , point out two way to view the situat . & ldquo ; on the one hand , thi is a human tragedi & ndash ; and that is perhap the first reaction , especi with thi so close to home . these are bu stop where all our kid are , so you feel a certain sens of insecur ; you don & rsquo ; t know who is go to be next . the result is a more tens atmospher . & ldquo ; the religi respons is to turn to god in prayer and strengthen element of practic . but there is also the polit aspect . for exampl , peopl such as [ nation secur minist itamar ] ben - gvir have promis to restor secur in face of attack and threat . & ldquo ; he is alway first at the scene and garner support from even haredim and the youth . and yet , ha he done anyth ? is it all talk or will he actual do someth that will give us a greater sens of secur ? & rdquo ; he point out that ramot is a primarili haredi area . & ldquo ; we don & rsquo ; t consid ourselv settler ; there is no settler conscious here . thi is happen to us , and what is the respons from our rabbi and [ haredi ] politician ? noth . just to pray . of cours we need to , but we also need polici . & rdquo ; pfeffer lament the imbal between mk and rabbi , who & ldquo ; can speak up on religi matter & ndash ; which are import & ndash ; but so are peopl & rsquo ; s live . if you have the privileg to be in power , you can not sit on the sidelin . it is up to [ the politician ] to come up with some type of polici . & rdquo ; arab who live in east jerusalem chose to remain anonym when speak with the magazin . one said that he think that & ldquo ; the silent major of east jerusalemit don & rsquo ; t like attack on civilian becaus it hurt them more than it benefit them . howev , i think the major see attack on soldier and polic as a win . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; other express outrag at the deadli shoot at the neveh ya & rsquo ; acov synagogu , say that & ldquo ; attack on those leav prayer servic is cross a line . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; yet it is evid that the gener mood among palestinian in east jerusalem and the west bank is reach a boil point . thi is especi true in east jerusalem . arab there are under complet isra sovereignti , yet lack the same servic that are avail to isra . thi includ issu surround passport and visa & ndash ; flash point , as they desir the freedom to travel and work abroad . the realiti is bleaker in west bank citi such as nablu or jenin , where mani attack come from . what happen go forward ? policymak are assess how the terror attack will impact tourism and , in turn , the economi . upward of four million peopl on averag visit jerusalem annual , with tourism a vital econom lifelin . jerusalem deputi mayor fleur hassan - nahoum , whose portfolio includ tourism , told the magazin that & ldquo ; the recent terrorist attack have shaken our whole nation and left us in mourn . i understand the fear and concern among our resid and tourist alik , but jerusalem is a citi of strength and resili . & ldquo ; it ha face and overcom mani challeng in the past , and these act of terror will not defin it . & rdquo ; she continu that & ldquo ; necessari measur have been taken to ensur safeti and secur . i am confid that jerusalem will continu to thrive and attract visitor from around the world . & rdquo ; how to respond on an individu level is a question on the mind of mani . ben - gvir ha push for expedit gun licens for civilian , point to the fact that mani terrorist are stop quickli by arm isra . those interview echo thi sentiment , express a desir to obtain a licens and purchas a gun . some are even carri deterr such as pepper spray or knive . elia said he ha purchas pepper spray for himself and hi famili ; other said they keep an eye out for potenti danger situat . & nbsp ; arguabl , the most frighten realiti about the current attack is just how unpredict they can be . unlik in the past , when attack were often carri out by central terror group , today & rsquo ; s terrorist may have no prior histori of crimin behavior , yet find themselv so radic that they take up arm . & nbsp ; these type of & ldquo ; lone wolf & rdquo ; terrorist have sprung up across the world and are also a challeng for israel & rsquo ; s polic forc . though there is a common profil of these attack & ndash ; singl and unemploy & ndash ; the provoc rhetor in the mosqu and the prolifer of hate messag on social media are also incit brutal attack on civilian , young and old . where thi is lead to is anyon & rsquo ; s guess . will it spiral into an all - out third intifada as some predict ? though mani hope not , the possibl is nevertheless be discuss . even the smallest of perceiv provoc , such as ariel sharon & rsquo ; s 2000 visit to the templ mount , can spiral out of control and be the catalyst of wide - scale disturb . levi point out that the lack of action or chang in the polit realm ensur that the statu quo of terror will continu . & ldquo ; our polit figur have not been pursu the chang that we need . & rdquo ; as a result , & ldquo ; it make no sens that children should have to be kill by a ram at a bu stop befor shabbat or that older peopl should be kill as they exit a synagogu after prayer . & rdquo ; elia believ politician like ben - gvir and financ minist bezalel smotrich are aim for escal , as & ldquo ; it can help reach a determin in the conflict . & rdquo ; in ani case , it is clear from these discuss that despit the uptick in violenc , no one is make plan to leav the countri . thi is their home , nowher els . with that in mind , no amount of attack can stop peopl from continu to move to the capit and start famili . 