isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu and us presid joe biden spoke on the phone monday for the first time in over a month as tension between the two leader continu to increas . the convers focus on israel & rsquo ; s war against hama . the campaign , which is now in it sixth month , ha driven a wedg between the longtim alli that some are call unpreced . while the relationship between the us and israel ha been dot with disagr and crise , the allianc ha larg been consid steadfast and unwav . tension between presid biden and netanyahu were evid even befor the war , as the isra govern sought to promot a widespread reform of the countri & rsquo ; s judici system . while netanyahu insist that the reform would make israel even more democrat , the us voic it concern that the overhaul would concentr power in israel & rsquo ; s execut branch . the white hous also critic the inclus of sever far - right ultranationalist cabinet minist in the netanyahu govern . immedi support after oct . 7 , but is now it dwindl ? follow hama & rsquo ; surpris offens against israel , dure which approxim 1 , 200 peopl were kill , presid biden set asid hi differ with netanyahu and move to show immedi support for the jewish state . in a visit to tel aviv just day after the attack , the american leader express solidar with the isra peopl and vow to continu the steadi suppli of arm to israel . the us also mobil aircraft carrier to the region to deter israel & rsquo ; s other foe , mainli iran , from join the war . as the war continu , the us rais more question about israel & rsquo ; s tactic and end - game strategi . israel & rsquo ; s offens in gaza ha led to high casualti , with gaza & rsquo ; s hama - run health ministri report over 31 , 000 palestinian kill and 73 , 000 injur . the offens ha led to widespread destruct in the territori that will cost billion of dollar to repair . variou intern organ have also warn of famin in gaza , up the pressur on israel to halt it offens . in the past week , the tone adopt by senior american offici toward israel & rsquo ; s leader ha escal . earlier thi year , the american presid wa report to have call netanyahu a & ldquo ; bad f * * * ing guy , & rdquo ; which he deni have said . but last week , he went on the record say the isra leader wa caus more harm than good to hi countri . & ldquo ; thi is a uniqu crisi , both becaus it is in the midst of a war and becaus of what appear to be it veri person natur , & rdquo ; dr . shay har - zvi , head of the intern and middl eastern arena at reichman univers & rsquo ; s institut for polici and strategi , told the media line . & ldquo ; the person critic , rather than critic of polici , make thi crisi except and perhap one of the most acut . & rdquo ; the main point of content is a pend isra militari oper in rafah , a citi in the southern gaza strip . accord to the unit nation , a major of the approxim 1 . 7 million palestinian displac by the war are take shelter in rafah . rafah is the onli citi in gaza that ha not yet seen an oper of isra ground troop . as israel delay it oper in rafah , intern pressur against oper in the citi ha grown . mani countri are warn of an exacerb humanitarian crisi in rafah , prompt israel to consid how best to handl the citi & rsquo ; s civilian popul . netanyahu ha vow to oper in rafah , say that hama & rsquo ; senior leadership is hide there . the citi is also home to an extens underground tunnel network that is believ to cross into neighbor egypt . the tunnel are hama & rsquo ; main lifelin and sourc of weapon , make the target a critic one in israel & rsquo ; s mission to dismantl the terrorist organ & rsquo ; s militari capabl . & ldquo ; the us feel israel is not do enough to meet the humanitarian need in gaza and they want answer about how israel intend to deal with the civilian presenc in rafah , & rdquo ; har - zvi said . & ldquo ; the humanitarian issu is at the core of the disagr . & rdquo ; accord to a white hous readout of the call between the two leader , netanyahu agre to send a deleg to the us to & ldquo ; exchang view and discuss altern approach that would target key element of hama and secur the egypt - gaza border without a major ground oper in rafah . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; the american percept is that becaus of netanyahu & rsquo ; s polit consider , he is reject ani possibl solut , & rdquo ; har - zvi ad . & ldquo ; he is not onli miss what could be a histor opportun , but also strateg entangl israel by increas the risk of a wider conflict and thi will directli hurt american strateg interest . & rdquo ; tension on israel & rsquo ; s northern border have also escal , threaten to widen the scope of the conflict . these develop have the white hous increasingli on edg . negoti for a truce and a deal that would see the isra hostag be held by hama releas could have a calm effect on the region . those talk are current underway in qatar . & ldquo ; the us govern is concern that the failur of these talk will mean a region escal , & rdquo ; har - zvi said . & ldquo ; there is an understand within the administr that the region is now at a critic crossroad . & rdquo ; dure last month & rsquo ; s democrat primari in michigan , in which the incumb presid wa run uncontest , 13 % of voter vote & ldquo ; uncommit & rdquo ; as part of a movement to protest hi handl of the israel - gaza war . that result signal to the white hous that it gaza polici wa put the presid at risk . & ldquo ; in the begin of the war , biden wa will to pay the price for hi support for israel , but now the uncommit vote appear to be gain momentum and will like influenc biden , & rdquo ; har - zvi explain . over the weekend , senat major leader chuck schumer sharpli critic netanyahu and call for earli elect in israel . schumer wa critic both by isra and by us republican for interf in intern isra affair . the presid prais the major leader & rsquo ; s speech , further upset netanyahu . although the current tension between israel and the us have been call unpreced , the two countri have face rocki period befor . & ldquo ; there is a tendenc to see crise as & lsquo ; the worst & rsquo ; in the heat of the moment , & rdquo ; zalman shoval , a former isra ambassador to the us , told the media line . he said there have been & ldquo ; far wors & rdquo ; crise than what israel and the us are current face . in the aftermath of the 1973 yom kippur war , israel and the us face disagr about how to prevent futur conflict between israel and egypt . as a result of the disagr , the us & ldquo ; reassess & rdquo ; it relat with israel and froze arm deliveri to the countri , lead to great tension between the alli . israel later went on to sign a disengag agreement with egypt , like due to american pressur . in the earli 1990 , presid georg h . w . bush announc that the us would withhold loan guarante to israel until it stop build settlement in the west bank and the gaza strip . both crise appear unpreced and , to some , insurmount . isra and american societi have both chang significantli sinc the time of those crise . the isra public ha increasingli shift to the right , with consist less support for a negoti solut that would see the establish of a palestinian state . the democrat parti ha also chang in recent year , with a grow progress element that show more support for the palestinian . & ldquo ; these chang must not be underestim , & rdquo ; shoval said . & ldquo ; the polit futur of both countri is unclear . & rdquo ; thi futur depend veri much on the fate of the american and isra leader . presid biden is in the midst of an elect campaign set to culmin in novemb 2024 . netanyahu is lag in the poll , and hi increasingli unpopular govern is not expect to last until the schedul 2026 elect . the outcom of elect in both countri will impact how the crisi play out . & ldquo ; the question is whether the us will continu to see itself as the leader of the western world or if isolationist tendenc will grow , & rdquo ; shoval said . he ad that person chemistri between the two leader is not as signific a factor as mani believ . israel and the us still have mutual interest , and the countri will eventu overcom the current crisi , shoval said . & ldquo ; american defens support for israel also stem from it own interest , includ financi one , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; unless there will be a fundament shift in the us , thi cooper will continu . & rdquo ; israel spend billion of dollar everi year on american weapon system , militari equip , and servic . the us appear eager to end the war , despit it state support for israel & rsquo ; s goal of dismantl hama . public opinion in israel , on the other hand , is veri much in favor of continu the war effort . thi trend is evid in mani poll and is independ of netanyahu & rsquo ; s declin popular . & ldquo ; when american come to express reserv about netanyahu , they need to rememb that there is overwhelm support in israel for the war , & rdquo ; shoval said . & ldquo ; i am not sure they understand the basic factor in the domest polit here . & rdquo ;