septemb 17 , 2021 mark 43 year sinc the sign of the camp david accord between former isra prime minist menachem begin and former egyptian presid anwar sadat , under the auspic of then us presid jimmi carter . it pave the way for the 1979 isra - egyptian peac deal , the first such treati between israel and one of it arab neighbor . the camp david accord wa the culmin of consider polit machin and came just year after the conclus of the yom kippur war in 1973 , wide regard as israel ' s darkest hour and where egypt play a major role as the aggressor . the war wa devast , with the jewish state flank in a surpris attack by egypt and syria . though israel achiev a militari victori over it adversari and came within shell rang of damascu , the war shock the jewish state out of complac , prompt the resign of israel ' s prime minist golda meir . after the war isra view the egyptian militari in a new , more danger light . howev , egypt had seen the conflict differ . despit egyptian militari success in the conflict , some in cairo were convinc that israel simpli could not be beaten on the battlefield . as such , it seem doubt they could use forc of arm to destroy the jewish state . but one thing it undoubtedli achiev wa to shift the region ' s statu quo . & nbsp ; two event then further chang everyth and set the scene for the eventu peac talk . the first event wa on may 17 , 1977 . thi wa israel ' s gener elect and saw the right - wing likud parti , led by begin , achiev a histor upset with a landslid victori , give israel a right - wing govern for the first time ever . the second event wa sadat ' s histor interview on cb new with walter cronkit on novemb 14 of the same year . dure thi interview , sadat shock the world by say that he wa more than will to actual visit jerusalem for peac negoti . & nbsp ; '' i want to discuss the whole situat with the 120 member of the knesset and put the full pictur and detail of the situat from our point of view , '' he said at the time . & nbsp ; thi wa not the first time sadat express willing to go to israel , and he had said as much in a speech befor the peopl ' s assembl just five day earlier . howev , now hi intent were made public to the world . that same day , cronkit interview begin and ask for hi respons . & ldquo ; i can assur you , mr . cronkit , as we realli want the visit of presid sadat , we realli want to negoti the peac , to establish perman peac in the middl east , & rdquo ; begin said . & ldquo ; ani time , ani day he ' s prepar to come , i will receiv him cordial at the airport , and go togeth with him to jerusalem , also present him to the knesset and let him make hi speech to our parliament . i will follow him onto the platform and greet him , receiv him . & rdquo ; shortli after , thi exact situat happen . sadat , in an unpreced and histor moment , arriv at lod airport ( known today as ben - gurion airport ) . on novemb 20 , sadat then made histori by address the knesset . & nbsp ; sadat ' s move threw out the rulebook , take washington by surpris . it led to negoti that culmin in the camp david accord , which were sign at the white hous by sadat and begin in 1978 after 12 day of secret talk at camp david . there were two framework in the accord . the first dealt with the palestinian and face condemn for a lack of particip from the palestinian themselv . howev , the second framework wa between egypt and israel , win both begin and sadat the nobel peac prize and directli lead to the treati be sign a year later . notabl , as part of the accord , israel pledg to fulli withdraw from the sinai peninsula in it entireti . israel had taken the peninsula follow the six day war , and isra settlement did exist in the area . but now they all had to be withdrawn . but ultim , it wa seen as a good thing in israel , where it continu to enjoy support . & nbsp ; accord to a 2001 poll by the jaffe center for strateg studi , 85 % of isra support the accord . in egypt , howev , the respons wa less posit . the nation of the arab world were harshli critic of egypt ' s move , cost them their membership in the arab leagu and caus unrest and sedit to fester , particularli among islamist group . ultim , on octob 6 , 1981 , sadat wa assassin at a victori parad by islamist belong to the egyptian islam jihad organ . in total , 11 peopl were kill at the event outright , includ sadat , an omani deleg and the cuban ambassador , while 28 were wound . sadat wa ultim succeed by hi vice presid , hosni mubarak , who stay in power for 30 year until the 2011 arab spring . today , egypt ' s relat with israel are tens , particularli regard the palestinian conflict , and secur remain strong at the sinai border . howev , cairo ha maintain an activ role in region affair , particularli regard the hama - rule gaza strip , with which it share a border . & nbsp ; egypt play a critic role in the restor of calm that end the 11 - day may war between israel and hama , known as oper guardian of the wall . despit thi , the peac remain cold , and follow 2011 , isra and egyptian leader went a decad without meet , until prime minist naftali bennett and presid abdel fattah al - sisi met at sharm e - sheikh . ultim , the camp david accord are rememb posit as the first truli success peac negoti between israel and an arab nation . it mark israel ' s first act of normal with an arab nation and wa follow decad later by jordan in 1994 and then 26 year later in 2020 with the abraham accord forg peac between israel , bahrain , morocco , sudan and the unit arab emir . further , the now - icon imag of sadat and begin shake hand remain a testament to the effort of diplomaci .