colombian presid gustavo petro ha order the open of an embassi in the palestinian citi of ramallah , foreign minist lui gilberto murillo told journalist on wednesday . '' presid petro ha given the order that we open the colombian embassi in ramallah , the represent of colombia in ramallah , that is the next step we are go to take , '' murillo said . murillo ad he believ more countri will soon begin back the recognit of a palestinian state befor the unit nation , effort colombia ha alreadi support . at the begin of thi month , petro , who had alreadi recal the colombian ambassador from tel aviv , said he would break diplomat relat with israel over it action in gaza . the embassi wa close on may 3 . petro ha heavili critic isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu and ha request to join south africa ' s case accus israel of genocid at the intern court of justic . isra foreign minist israel katz accus petro of be `` antisemit and full of hate `` follow colombia ' s decis to cut tie with the middl eastern countri , say the move wa a reward for hama . ramallah , in the west bank , serv as the administr capit of the palestinian author . on may 10 , the unit nation gener assembl overwhelmingli back a palestinian bid to becom a full un member by recogn it as qualifi to join and recommend the un secur council `` reconsid the matter favor . '' israel - hama warisrael ha been root out hama in gaza over a brutal rampag by hama milit in israel on oct . 7 in which 1 , 200 peopl were kill and more than 250 taken hostag . nearli 36 , 000 palestinian have been kill in the war , accord to the gaza health ministri . israel ' s respons ha drawn heavi intern critic , with aid access into southern gaza disrupt sinc it step up militari oper in rafah , a move that the un say ha forc 900 , 000 peopl to flee and ha rais tension with neighbor egypt . colombia wa not the first latin american countri to cut tie with israel . bolivia broke with relat with israel at the end of octob last year while sever other countri in latin america , includ chile and hondura , have recal their ambassador .