hezbollah secretari - gener hassan nasrallah warn that hezbollah will not stop attack israel until the war in gaza is end , reject effort by the intern commun to prevent an expans of the conflict in the region dure a speech on tuesday afternoon . '' the front in southern lebanon is a front of support , assist , solidar , and particip in weaken the isra enemi until it reach the point where it is convinc that it must stop it aggress . thi front will onli stop when the aggress against gaza stop within an agreement with the palestinian resist . '' nasrallah also reject threat by isra offici of a larg - scale war if hezbollah refus to stop it assault , say , `` if israel had been abl [ to launch such a war ] , it would have done so on the second or third day . '' the enemi is not in the posit of impos condit on lebanon , as he is weak and in crisi , and he is the one who spent four month unabl to complet the battl in gaza . '' the hezbollah leader insist that hi movement ' s decis to launch attack on israel `` stabil the balanc of deterr and prove that lebanon ha a real deterr power . '' hezbollah : prevent an isra victori in gaza ' a nation interest ' nasrallah state that hezbollah began attack israel after octob 7 `` primarili to prevent an isra victori , '' stress that thi `` constitut a nation interest `` for lebanon . '' the origin of the establish of israel in the region is a disast for all the countri and peopl of the region , '' said nasrallah . `` a strong israel is a danger to the region , and a weak , deter , and fear israel constitut a less harm and catastroph situat for the countri and peopl of the region . in lebanon , a strong israel is a danger to lebanon , and a deter israel is the one whose danger to lebanon can be reduc . '' nasrallah complain about the intern deleg that came to lebanon in recent week in an attempt to calm the situat , say that they were onli concern with protect israel and refus to address hezbollah ' s demand . nasrallah address the lebanes govern as well , call on them to make new demand to add to unsc resolut 1701 . `` lebanon is in a strong and proactiv posit , '' insist the hezbollah leader .