a deleg of pro - israel jewish student leader from univers embroil in campu anti - israel activ ha arriv in israel to develop strategi to combat antisemit and anti - israel propaganda on their campus . the two dozen student from the group hail from univers such as columbia , rutger , new york univers , western ontario univers , and the univers of texa , among other . & nbsp ; the student leader are schedul to engag with top isra offici , hear first - hand testimoni from survivor of the octob 7 massacr in the south of israel , meet with famili member of hostag held in gaza , and visit the southern gaza border commun , includ kibbutzim , affect by the terrorist attack . '' we are here , as jewish and zionist student leader , to educ ourselv and to send a messag of solidar , & rdquo ; alan levin , execut director of hasbara fellowship , explain . & nbsp ; hasbara fellowship , along with israelambassador . com , sponsor the mission . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we are not afraid to come to israel , and we will not be afraid to stand with israel on our campus , & rdquo ; levin continu . & ldquo ; by meet isra leader , famili of hostag , and heroic idf soldier on the front line , we are send a messag to the hater on campu and to our fellow jewish student : we are not afraid , & rdquo ; levin ad . & nbsp ; mk danni danon welcom the delegationlikud mk danni danon welcom the deleg upon their arriv . & ldquo ; we deepli appreci your commit to stand up for israel and oppos antisemit on campu , '' the mk and former ambassador to the unit nation told the student . `` it ' s essenti for emerg leader like yourselv to see and hear firsthand the realiti face by the peopl of israel . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; your experi will be instrument in advoc for israel and spread awar when you return to the us , '' he ad . & ldquo ; i am scare for the futur of my univers becaus of the recent event on campu . student no longer feel safe . i hope that thi visit to israel give me the tool to share the truth with those on campu who defend mass rape and murder and who are uninform or misinform about event in israel , & rdquo ; josh shain , a columbia univers student and deleg member , remark . columbia univers ha face widespread critic due to the presid ' s handl of antisemit on campu and it handl of it campu ' s anti - israel encamp . the univers ' s presid , minouch shafik , alreadi appear befor a us hous hear on how the administr is handl the antisemit across campu . & nbsp ; jack landstein , a student at the univers of michigan , comment , & ldquo ; with the rise of antisemit after octob 7 , i felt it wa imper that i visit and expand my own & lsquo ; israel toolkit & rsquo ; so that i can share the truth about israel and counter antisemit rhetor to better protect other jewish student on campu . & rdquo ; in the anti - defam leagu & rsquo ; s antisemit report card , design to track antisemit on us colleg campus , the univers of michigan receiv a d , cite recent anti - zionist student govern activ . & nbsp ;