the likud & rsquo ; s respons to the meron report is indic of the parti & rsquo ; s tactic and strategi surround the question of respons , account , and blame for the octob 7 hama massacr : prime minist benjamin netanyahu is not to blame , and anyon who claim so ha partisan polit motiv . the respons came from the parti , not from the prime minist himself . netanyahu & rsquo ; s media team know how to put him in the limelight when they want to : they use video statement , pictur , written statement , and often a mix of all of the abov . in thi case , a written statement from the likud parti , not the prime minist himself , show that the prime minist intend to keep himself as far away as possibl from the report & rsquo ; s conclus . the content of the respons follow thi theme . it begin , & ldquo ; the meron disast wa tragic , our heart are with the famili of the victim . in practic , the govern ha alreadi implement the requir conclus , and the last event at meron wa held with a larg crowd and without fault . the govern will examin the need to implement addit oper lesson to prevent a repetit of a disast such as thi . & rdquo ; the statement then move on to accus : & ldquo ; howev , it is unfortun that for the first time in histori , the govern led by bennett and lapid form a committe of investig against it predecessor in the polit right , and in which a central member wa a confidant of lapid , shlomo yanai , who receiv an offer for a spot in the yesh atid knesset list . thi is a complet distinct polit provoc . lapid & rsquo ; s cynic and intent attempt to turn the meron disast into a polit tool will not succeed . & rdquo ; thi respons wa critic by member of nearli all of the polit parti , includ the likud itself , as well as by a forum that repres the famili of the victim , who call it & ldquo ; disgrac . & rdquo ; it is worth note that member of the nation commiss of inquiri were chosen by then - chief justic esther hayut , not by the lapid - bennett govern . the netanyahu govern at the time of the disast drag it feet in form the committe , and at first attempt to form a government or parliamentari committe , which would give it some power over the ident of the committe member , as well as reduc the impact of it conclus . furthermor , the likud & rsquo ; s respons did not mention that yanai is a retir idf major gener , a recipi of the idf & rsquo ; s medal of distinguish servic , a former ceo of teva pharmaceut industri , and , accord to haaretz report yossi melman , wa netanyahu & rsquo ; s choic to head the mossad in 2010 ( which yanai turn down ) . nor did the respons mention the other distinguish member of the commiss & ndash ; former suprem court presid miriam naor , who wa replac by tel aviv district court presid devorah berlin , and rabbi mordechai karelitz , former mayor of bnei brak . instead of at least acknowledg the fact that netanyahu wa found to bear person respons for the disast , the respons attempt to discredit the member of the committe . other than say that the govern will examin whether there are ani more lesson to implement , the respons doe not address ani of the sweep system failur that the committe found led to the disast & ndash ; nor the fact that these failur were exacerb dure the decad befor the disast , dure which netanyahu wa prime minist . likud respond similarli to octob 7the respons is indic of how the likud ha respond to the octob 7 massacr . at least on two occas , the likud put out immedi respons to report intellig failur lead up to the massacr , in which it said that netanyahu wa not awar of the intellig and that he wa not forewarn by idf offici . the prime minist ha promis that there will be a committe of investig , but it is not clear when such a committe will be form . in addit , sinc the octob 7 massacr , he mention the word & ldquo ; respons & rdquo ; in just one press confer & ndash ; and said that he wa & ldquo ; respons for the futur of the state of israel , & rdquo ; which impli that he wa not respons for event in the past . the govern wa slam with respons for the failur of octob 7 , and at first , the word & ldquo ; respons & rdquo ; wa utter by no one ; slowli , that chang . idf chief of staff lt .- gen . herzi halevi said it first , follow by defens minist yoav gallant and financ minist bezalel smotrich . netanyahu still ha not . a direct line link the likud & rsquo ; s respons to the meron report and it statement sinc the octob 7 massacr : netanyahu is not respons , and whoever claim so ha polit motiv . thi is like to continu , and it is thu not clear how and when those who bear respons for the event of octob 7 will be held account . & nbsp ;