prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha promis to alloc an addit ni 14 million to advanc work on a project & ndash ; dub & ldquo ; sovereignti & rdquo ; or & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; road & ndash ; that would link the e1 section of the ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim settlement with jerusalem . & ldquo ; thi is a signific breakthrough in advanc the issu , & rdquo ; ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim mayor benni kashriel said in a statement on the matter post on the citi & rsquo ; s websit . the project , also call the & ldquo ; fabric of life & rdquo ; road , is consid essenti for the develop of e1 , where israel is slate to build 3 , 412 home in a move that would vastli expand ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim , which is the third - largest settler citi in the west bank , after modi & rsquo ; in illit and betar illit . the e1 project ha been larg frozen for close to three decad becaus palestinian and the intern commun consid it harm to the feasibl of a contigu futur palestinian state . the us , exclud the trump administr , had also histor object to the project . israel ha argu that the issu of contigu is best address by an effici but separ road system , includ thi one , that would allow direct palestinian traffic between ramallah and bethlehem that skirt the e1 bloc , while isra travel between jerusalem and ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim would also be made easier . critic of the project have accus israel of & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; for it promot of a road that separ isra and palestinian traffic . the municip notic about the project state that there would be & ldquo ; a separ road for palestinian in the e1 area , & rdquo ; which would distinguish between isra and palestinian traffic so that & ldquo ; palestinian vehicl could pass without travel through the ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim bloc , near the jewish settlement . & rdquo ; it note that & ldquo ; at the polit level , the road would connect jerusalem and ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim and allow jewish settlement construct in the e1 area . & rdquo ; the municip ad that it would eas traffic congest and elimin the need for checkpoint . the road would then exit from eizariya - abu di to the tunnel under the a - zaim checkpoint , and vehicl would travel on a separ road toward hizma - ramallah , the municip said . yamina parti head naftali bennett had initi promot the project in march when he serv as the defens minist . kashriel said he had campaign and push netanyahu to alloc more fund , a move that bore fruit onli thi week , with a convers between kashriel , netanyahu , transport minist miri regev and financ minist israel katz , both of the likud parti . prior to the meet kashriel sent netanyahu a letter in which he accus him of drag hi feet on the issu , note that he had promis to pave the road three year ago at a likud faction meet in the knesset . then it wa determin that the road would be pave in 2020 . again in august , a pledg wa onc more given with respect to the road , and yet , kashriel note in hi letter , he wa still seek fund for the project . after receiv anoth pledg from netanyahu for fund thi week , kashriel thank the prime minist , along with regev and katz , for the help . the left - wing group peac now charg on wednesday that the project wa part of netanyahu & rsquo ; s reelect campaign . & ldquo ; netanyahu & rsquo ; s elect campaign is cost israel a veri heavi price . onc again , he is use the elect period to tri to impress key likud support by promot a plan that could elimin the possibl of a two - state solut . the plan road will allow israel to cut the west bank in two , build e1 and the separ barrier , and close the door on the possibl of develop a sustain palestinian state . & rdquo ; in the last year , netanyahu allow for plan for 3 , 412 settler home in e1 to be deposit . peac now ha file an object to those plan .