the knesset nation secur committe held a meet on wednesday to examin action to & ldquo ; prevent harm to an elect offici at a demonstr or protest near hi hous , & rdquo ; follow stormi protest sinc last week against the govern and in favor of a hostag deal . the session , which wa conven at the request of likud mk amit halevi , came two day after prime minist benjamin netanyahu head a meet on the same subject with nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir , justic minist yariv levin , israel & rsquo ; s polic commission , and other minist . the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic did not put out a statement on the content of monday & rsquo ; s meet . a number of minist and knesset member from the coalit publicli critic protest group last week after a torch wa thrown at a polic cavalri offic and after protest succeed in evad the polic and approach netanyahu & rsquo ; s privat resid on aza street in jerusalem . some argu that the prime minist & rsquo ; s life had been in danger , but the israel polic deni thi . on saturday night , a man ram into protest in tel aviv , injur five peopl . netanyahu address the event in remark at the begin of sunday & rsquo ; s govern meet , say that & ldquo ; most of the peopl , includ me , condemn violenc among us & ndash ; riot and lawless , ram into protest or attack polic offic , reckless and violent incit for murder on social media . & rdquo ; polic data show 141 elect offici are current design as threaten & nbsp ; accord to data present by dep .- ch . shlomi sagi , head of the polic & rsquo ; s oper divis , dure wednesday & rsquo ; s knesset nation secur session , 141 elect offici are current design as be & ldquo ; threaten . & rdquo ; sagi ad that accord to the law , citizen do not need approv from the polic to demonstr , but do need approv for march . he also reject claim by knesset member from the coalit that the polic were conduct select enforc and not do enough to prevent law - break dure the anti - govern protest , state that & ldquo ; the polic is not interest in which side the protest are , but that all who particip return home safe , while maintain the balanc between the freedom of assembl and the freedom of movement of the gener public . & rdquo ; knesset member from the opposit critic the topic of the session . labor mk gilad kariv argu that the session should focu not on the protest but on polic use of forc against the protest . yesh atid mk karin elharrar ad that violenc on all side must be condemn , and that she did not hear condemn from member of the coalit of the ram incid . & ldquo ; i understand that you are have a hard time , it is not pleasant when peopl demonstr against you . on the other hand , freedom of express and the right to demonstr is a fundament valu in democraci . & rdquo ; other knesset member from the opposit point out that at the same time as the nation secur committe session , a knesset caucu to support the hostag be held by hama in gaza wa also meet , but that while over five knesset coalit member attend the committe session , onli one knesset member from the coalit attend the caucu session & ndash ; the caucu & rsquo ; s co - chair , likud mk boaz bismuth . at least 13 knesset member from the opposit attend the caucu session . & nbsp ;