israel & rsquo ; s militari is brace for an attack near the border with gaza , but other area might be at risk as well . khale al - batsh , head of the politburo of the palestinian islam jihad in the gaza strip , told the media line that central israel is under threat by hi organ . & ldquo ; we have everi right to bomb israel with our most advanc weapon , and make the occupi pay a heavi price . we will not settl for attack around gaza , but we will bomb the center of the so - call state of israel , & rdquo ; batsh said . & ldquo ; we have everi right to bomb israel with our most advanc weapon , and make the occupi pay a heavi price . we will not settl for attack around gaza , but we will bomb the center of the so - call state of israel . & rdquo ; khale al - batshin an interview with the media line on wednesday , batsh made it clear that islam jihad intend to retali for the arrest of it west bank command , bassam al - saadi , late on monday night . & ldquo ; the palestinian islam jihad can & rsquo ; t sit silent and watch the isra crime , and the spill of palestinian blood in the west bank and in the gaza strip , & rdquo ; he said . batsh also deni that hama is tri to prevent the palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) from attack israel , state that contact between the organ is ongo . & ldquo ; no one attempt to stop us from use our right to stop the isra crime , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; our goal is to make the occup pay for it crime , and to prove that the islam jihad will keep to it commit to protect the palestinian peopl and the resist anywher , & rdquo ; he ad . cabinet meet to discuss tensionsisra secur cabinet met wednesday for a brief by the head of secur shin bet , chief of staff and head of the intellig corp , about the high tension in the area surround the gaza strip . the minist were brief about statu and step taken to protect resid of the area . road are close and bu station are heavili secur in the area surround the gaza strip , as isra secur forc estim a come attack from the palestinian islam jihad . secur offici in israel claim that both arm forc and civilian are at risk , as the pij might attempt to take reveng for the arrest of bassam al - saadi , a senior command in the organ , which took place in the west bank citi of jenin monday night . video of the arrest show saadi drag on the ground and bit by a dog went viral on social network immedi after the arrest , caus rage among the terror group support . in an unusu step , isra secur forc publish a photo of saada after the arrest , attempt to prove he & rsquo ; s aliv and calm down the flame . ' if they want to shoot rocket - they would have alreadi done that ' eyal hajbi , the secur chief of sha & rsquo ; ar hanegev region council talk to the media line about the difficulti in be on alert : & ldquo ; not one bullet wa fire , yet we & rsquo ; re alreadi act like there is a war go on . peopl take road that take 40 minut instead of 5 minut , becaus of the roadblock . don & rsquo ; t get me wrong - it & rsquo ; s frustrat , but i understand where it & rsquo ; s come from , & rdquo ; he say . & ldquo ; we want to prevent them [ the palestinian islam jihad - a . k . ] from get a victori imag , by bomb a vehicl or a sniper shoot a solid . & rdquo ; hajbi also ha an estim of what could be the form of the attack : an anti - tank missil , or a sniper attack . & ldquo ; if they want to retali by shoot rocket - they would have alreadi done that . it & rsquo ; s these action that requir more prepar , & rdquo ; he explain . & ldquo ; and it & rsquo ; s danger becaus it can easili trigger an escal . don & rsquo ; t forget that guardian of the wall [ may 2021 escal between israel and hama - a . k ] start of an anti - tank shoot from the gaza strip . & rdquo ; while the militari is block more and more road around gaza , the pij keep a fog around it plan , creat an atmospher of uncertainti for the commun around the gaza strip . & ldquo ; peopl here don & rsquo ; t realli have a choic . we know where we live and accept the cost . but it & rsquo ; s inconveni , and tens time like thi make everyon more anxiou in the long run , & rdquo ; say hajbi . the isra militari didn & rsquo ; t respond to the media line & rsquo ; s enquiri by time the articl wa publish .