match purim charact to the knessetform sha mk yigal guetta , who is now a radio and televis broadcast , wa banter befor purim about what ident member of knesset should take , and came up with a belov charact of fiction & ndash ; pinocchio , the key figur in an italian children & rsquo ; s novel written close to two centuri ago . pinocchio & rsquo ; s nose grew longer everi time he told a lie . isra newspap cartoonist appar came up with a similar idea . for some year now , they have been depict prime minist benjamin netanyahu with an abnorm long nose . in actual fact , the prime minist & rsquo ; s nose is not unusu in size , but he doe have a tendenc to arrog to himself declar and deed , the credit for which belong to other . surpris purim tradit & nbsp ; not everyon is awar that there is more than one purim and even more than two or three . prior to the read of the scroll of esther , or the megillah as it & rsquo ; s gener known , at the yad vashem synagogu in jerusalem , two senior staff from yad vashem & rsquo ; s guid depart , naama galil and yochai copenhagen , present an intrigu lesson on the histori of purim , how it is celebr and commemor in differ countri and the special delicaci that are eaten . the read of the scroll wa done by prof . jonathan halevi , the presid of shaar zedek medic center , whose style and perfect enunci make him a much in demand torah reader at variou jerusalem synagogu . the yad vashem synagogu , design by prizewin , intern acclaim , isra - born architect mosh safdi , is in itself a mini museum , showcas sacr item that are remnant of european synagogu destroy dure the holocaust . the synagogu serv as an archiv of memori to the onc - flourish jewish commun of europ . it is also a place for person prayer in memori of rel who were murder or who perish in the ghetto and the camp . the synagogu ha superb acoust & ndash ; someth that is not alway taken into account in design of build for public use . in the balkan , accord to the two yad vashem repres , everi time the jewish commun wa save from a massacr through some appar miracl , anoth purim wa declar . the special cooki that are eaten on purim , known as hamentashen , were origin call mohntashen & ndash ; poppi - seed pocket ; and in countri where ladino is spoken rather than yiddish or hebrew , the recip are somewhat differ , and so are the name . there are four essenti purim command : to read or attend a read of the megillah ; to be joy while simultan rememb attempt by despot to elimin the jew from the face of the earth ; to exchang gift of food ; and to provid for the poor . most of the peopl who attend the purim servic at the yad vashem synagogu were child holocaust survivor , and quit a few came dress in the purim spirit . the even conclud with a merri klezmer recit by omri rivlin and vladimir czeczlinski . on display , in front of the ark , wa a centuri - old scroll of esther discov and rescu from the krakow ghetto in march 1943 . legend ha it that there wa also a queen esther in krakow , though there is no absolut proof . howev , there is a street name after her in the old jewish quarter of krakow . accord to the stori , she wa exceedingli beauti and caught the eye of king casimir the great . the main clue to ani truth in the stori is that jew suffer great persecut in 14th - centuri poland , and that after casimir fell in love with esther , persecut ceas . esterka , as she wa call , is refer to in both jewish and polish histor literatur . herzog deliv megillah read & nbsp ; in ani given week , presid isaac herzog travel the length and breadth of the countri , but for the megillah read on sunday night , all he had to do wa cross the road to the synagogu at the theatron hotel , which is directli opposit the rear entranc to the presid & rsquo ; s resid . servic are held daili in the beauti appoint synagogu , and in recent month attend ha been gratifi , as nearli all the guest room are occupi by evacue , most of whom are tradit in their religi observ . join herzog at the servic were evacue from kiryat shmona , sderot , and shlomi . herzog greet the congreg , say that it wa veri emot for him to meet them , to strengthen them , and in particular to assur those from the north that he is well awar that they are live through a period of great uncertainti . he offer them encourag in the knowledg that in the final analysi they would all return home in peac and by the grace of god . & ldquo ; we all pray and work toward the speedi return of the hostag , & rdquo ; he said , quot maimonid . & ldquo ; there is no greater deed than liber captiv . & rdquo ; he also call for the strengthen of the israel defens forc on land , sea , and in the air . hi final appeal wa for the preserv of nation uniti and love of israel . the return of adloyada & nbsp ; there wa consider controversi in jerusalem thi year as to whether to hold an adloyada parad dure wartim . those in favor said that the somber atmospher of the nation should not be impos on children , and that they should be allow to celebr and have fun . & nbsp ; those against said it would be a travesti to parad through the street of the capit in joy , while the hostag kidnap by hama were still languish in gaza . the variou argument prompt aryeh halivni , the founder of toldot israel , the antholog of israel & rsquo ; s contemporari histori , to releas an item about the begin of the adloyada tradit . for those who may not be awar , it & rsquo ; s customari to drink alcohol beverag on purim till one reach the stage of lose awar . & ldquo ; adloyada & rdquo ; is a conglomer of three hebrew word liter translat as & ldquo ; till he didn & rsquo ; t know . & rdquo ; the excerpt from toldot israel read as follow : & ldquo ; in decemb 1931 , the tel aviv municip held a contest to choos a new name for the annual purim festiv . suggest came in from such note author as bialik , tchernichovski , and avraham shlonski . the win entri came from yitzhak dov berkowitz , sholem aleichem & rsquo ; s son - in - law , and himself an israel prize - win author . & ldquo ; & lsquo ; adloyada & rsquo ; is a contract of & lsquo ; ad d & rsquo ; lo yada , & rsquo ; the arama word in the talmud that encourag drink on purim until one no longer know the differ between bless is mordechai and curs is haman . the name stuck , and to thi day , purim celebr throughout israel are known as the & lsquo ; adloyada . & rsquo ; & rdquo ; purim histori & nbsp ; current do the round on electron media is a stori about a purim song . dure purim 1954 , mosh sharett , who wa then prime minist , came to the milo club , which wa then the cultur center of the labor parti , and saw that everyon wa in a deject mood . five year earlier , yigal alon had sent a cabl to israel & rsquo ; s first prime minist , david ben - gurion , inform him of the conquest of eilat . follow five - year anniversari celebr , a busload of merrymak who were return home , on march 17 , 1954 , which coincid with the eve of purim , wa attack by terrorist , plung the whole countri into shock , fear , and grief . eleven of the passeng were murder .. the tragedi hung like a cloud over plan festiv . the purim parti at the milo club at 16 zamenhoff street wa anyth but cheer . in the crowd , sharett caught sight of songwrit ya & rsquo ; akov orland and mordechai zeira , who were then the celebr songwrit of the nation , and whose work are still popular today . sharett grab them by the arm , drag them into the kitchenett , gave them a bottl of brandi , and demand that they write a happi song to chang the mood . he left them alon , and as he close the door he told them not to exit until they could come up with a new , happi song . after a short time , the two emerg with the song written on a paper serviett . they start to perform it for sharett , who wa the product of a music famili . he immedi caught the tune , took a clarinet from the band and accompani them . return to israel post - pandemicbefor covid , new yorker lesli and fern penn use to come to israel at least onc everi two year . for lesli it wa pure a vacat and a mean of bone up on hi knowledg of zionist histori and of israel . for fern , it wa a mix of busi and pleasur . the coupl use to be the proprietor of a made in israel fashion , accessori and giftwar store , and fern & rsquo ; s foray to israel were to look at merchandis in the abovement categori . she made friend with isra design , and even after she and lesli gave up their enterpris due to soar rent in the big appl , fern remain involv with israel by lead food and fashion tour to israel . but then came the pandem , dure which mani intern airlin servic were suspend , and ani plan the coupl had for visit israel were put on hold . they final return to israel last week , after an eight - year hiatu . it wa not the israel they rememb , though their two favorit hotel , the dan in tel aviv and the king david in jerusalem , still carri the quiet luxuri aura of decad past , even though each had undergon subtl renov . but street in both citi had chang . where onc there had been singl - stori cottag , or three - or four - stori apart build , tall tower now domin the skylin , and new street have been creat in some place . in new york , lesli is the execut director of the conserv synagogu of fifth avenu , of which he wa previous the longtim presid . fern prefer the orthodox synagogu in riverdal led by rabbi avi weiss , and known as the hebrew institut of riverdal , or the bayit . but riverdal is too far from her home to walk , so she goe to the conserv synagogu on fifth avenu on shabbat and other jewish holi day , and to the avi weiss synagogu on weekday , where congreg have made link of love crochet multicolor necklac strand to give to evacue in israel . fern brought 100 of these necklac with her to distribut to evacue in the hotel where she and lesli stay . the congreg also made gift for soldier and famili of hostag . jew all over new york want to do someth for israel , said fern , who is think of lead anoth food and fashion tour , if she can persuad peopl to shake off their fear of come to israel . meanwhil , she want to make contact with the kadar foundat which late last year sought to promot awar of the plight of the isra hostag with bouquet of hope made up of yellow flower . the project , which began in hostag squar in tel aviv , spread to the unit state , where proce from sale are transfer directli to the famili of the hostag . fern believ that if she and avraham kadar put their head togeth , they can come up with some more awar - rais initi . octob 7 famili speak outb famou is no guarante that member of the govern will come to your side in a time of troubl . soccer comment shlomo scharf , in an interview with shalom kital on kan reshet bet radio , mention that after hi granddaught wa murder by hama on octob 7 , not a singl member of the govern came to pay a condol call . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s a terribl thing when a grandpar ha to buri a grandchild , & rdquo ; said the former soccer player , coach of the nation team , and the coach who led maccabi haifa to three championship . meanwhil , he ha donat an ambul to the haifa home for holocaust survivor , to be use free of charg whenev one of the resid requir hospit . he is also a regular visitor to the home , assist it resid with their variou need . celebr with the baha ' i commun & nbsp ; like mani other movement , organ , and institut , the baha & rsquo ; i intern commun , which last week celebr it new year and the come of spring , debat what kind of celebr it should have thi year in view of the circumst , or whether it should have a celebr at all , said david rutstein the bic secretari - gener . in the final analysi , it wa decid to go ahead , but on a somewhat lower key than usual . thi wa evid both in the floral decor and in the music entertain . in past year , mini garden have been establish in the lobbi lead to the banquet room at the david citadel hotel in jerusalem , where the bic alway celebr it new year or nowruz , as it is call in persian . thi year , the floral creation were subdu and consist of two garden patch , each with a larg yellow centerpiec to symbol the hope - for return of the hostag . there appear to be more guest than in year gone by , includ russian ambassador anatoli viktorov , who , social speak , ha paid the price for hi presid & rsquo ; s folli . he could not have known of the tragedi that would strike hi countri the follow day . follow the terrorist attack in a moscow concert hall , presid herzog call viktorov to offer hi condol to the famili of the dead , and sincer wish to all the wound for a speedi recoveri . herzog condemn in the strongest term the barbar terrorist attack perpetr in moscow , and emphas that terror of ani kind , especi jihadist terror , indiscrimin target all peopl , of all belief and religion , while sow fear and destruct . fight terror is a major intern challeng , and the countri of the world must fight it togeth , he said . chef at the david citadel outdid themselv in present and flavor . a piquant mullet wa reminisc of highli spice chraim , and the poach salmon with a semi sweet sauc wa delici . the color fruit platter with a rich assort of top - qualiti fruit were a feast to both the eye and the palat . there wa also a varieti of meat dish for carnivor , but vegetarian and some of the peopl who had abstain from eat dure the day , dure the fast of esther , avoid the meat for fear that it might be too difficult to digest after a fast . bic deputi secretari - gener arian sabet explain that the new year fall at the begin of spring , which is the season of renew , the season in which there is less dark and more light . repres the govern wa eyal sisso , the director - gener of the popul and immigr author , who wa born and rais in haifa , where he frequent visit the baha & rsquo ; i garden . comment on the & ldquo ; strong and import relat between baha & rsquo ; i and israel , & rdquo ; he said that he is happi to welcom baha & rsquo ; i volunt from around the world to israel . underscor the difficulti of celebr while the hostag are still suffer in captiv , sisso said : & ldquo ; we pray daili for their return . & rdquo ; sever of the baha & rsquo ; i volunt wore the nation costum of their respect countri . sing with soldiersamong israel ' s most popular commun singer is einat sarouf , who in her youth wa a great fan of yaffa yarkoni , who she say remain her sourc of inspir , and she will be play yarkoni in a habima music dure the summer . meanwhil , befor she figur step into yarkoni & rsquo ; s shoe , she ha been sing to and with the troop and civilian in the same manner as yarkoni , who die in januari 2012 . she ha also been travel to america to rais the moral of jewish commun and isra expatri . isra live in new york and miami have turn up in drove to her concert there , and , accord to interview sarouf ha given to the isra media , some actual weep over the line in the nation anthem declar that our hope is not yet lost . it & rsquo ; s a line that appli perfectli to the present situat . dermer speak on rolestrateg affair minist ron dermer post on x ( formerli twitter ) : & ldquo ; when i wa israel & rsquo ; s ambassador to washington , i must have met more than 160 other ambassador . i never met the ambassador of babylon , never met the ambassador of imperi rome , and i didn & rsquo ; t meet the ambassador of the 1 , 000 - year reich . but there is an ambassador of israel . we will surviv thi enemi . & rdquo ; bibi - bash indulg ? former us ambassador to israel martin indyk , who twice serv in that posit , appear to be indulg in subtl bibi - bash ( some might consid it israel - bash ) via hi x account . if he keep it up , it will onli serv to increas support for netanyahu . isra of all stripe are permit to indulg in bibi bash , but not anyon from abroad , even if that someon happen to be jewish . it & rsquo ; s someth like a parent be permit to say anyth neg about hi or her child , but woe betid anyon els who take the liberti of derid or chastis that same child . isra can say terribl thing about bibi , but will take a tough stand against non - isra who dare to do the same . pack and send mishloah manot & nbsp ; it would be a reason safe bet to say that more purim gift packag of pastri , cake , candi , chocol , fruit , and wine were deliv in israel thi year than the usual averag . good - heart isra and peopl from abroad sought to bring cheer to evacue displac for indefinit period from their home , reservist in the idf , and soldier who have been wound . when the anu & ndash ; museum of the jewish peopl came up with an idea to involv it friend & rsquo ; organ in israel , the us , and elsewher in an initi that would cater to all the aforement categori , expect were that suffici fund would be rais for a few hundr gift parcel . in the final analysi , 2 , 100 gift packag or mishloah manot , as they & rsquo ; re call in hebrew , were distribut by museum employe to patient in hospit from jerusalem to beersheba , as well as to displac person in hotel around the countri . the initi wa in partnership with foodish , the culinari unit of the museum , which bake pastri and prepar other food item , and made sure to purchas ingredi from reservist in the food industri . foodish ceo merav oren said that such enthusiasm had not been anticip , but she wa delight with thi . freed isra hostag speak out & nbsp ; last week at the unit nation human right council , b & rsquo ; nai b & rsquo ; rith intern , the b & rsquo ; nai b & rsquo ; rith world center - jerusalem , and b & rsquo ; nai b & rsquo ; rith & rsquo ; s offic of unit nation affair facilit remark by freed isra hostag aviva siegel , whose husband , keith , remain in hama captiv in gaza , and ofri biba , whose multipl famili member have remain captiv for more than five month . among them are her brother yarden , sister - in - law shiri , and nephew ariel ( four year old ) and kfir , who wa eight month old when abduct from hi home . siegel , a 62 - year - old resid of kibbutz kfar aza who wa liber in novemb after more than 50 day in captiv , ha spoken publicli of hama & rsquo ; s sexual abus and other act of violenc against civilian kidnap dure the terrorist & rsquo ; unpreced rampag in southern area of israel on octob 7 . in addit to ofri biba & rsquo ; s close rel still held hostag , some if not all of whom are separ and all incommunicado , ariel and kfir & rsquo ; s grandpar margit and yossi , also of kibbutz nir oz , were burn aliv . in her video statement to the unhrc , siegel said : & ldquo ; we were taken from our home in kfar aza in a brutal way . we were shot at , push . keith wa hurt & ndash ; he got shot , and they broke hi rib . & ldquo ; dure the time in captiv , we had no right . we receiv no food , no water , and no medic attent . we had no basic human right . underground , in the tunnel , we lost our right to speak , to feel , and , almost , to breath . keith is still there & ndash ; hurt , starv , and without ani right . it & rsquo ; s our duti as human to get him out of there . he need hi right back . he need hi famili . we need keith to come back . i beg you to help us : bring keith home now . & rdquo ; in her video statement , ofri biba said , & ldquo ; my brother yarden wa abduct , wound , from hi home in nir oz , israel , after tri to protect hi famili from hama terrorist . still , the terrorist abduct hi wife , shiri , and two children & ndash ; four - year - old ariel and kfir , an eight - and - a - half - month - old babi . & ldquo ; they are still held captiv & ndash ; by the same terrorist group that burn aliv ariel and kfir & rsquo ; s grandpar , margit and yossi , and wide murder , tortur , and rape civilian . accord to testimoni , they continu to do so to the hostag . & ldquo ; human right are base on freedom , life , and secur . what about my famili & rsquo ; s right ? where are the un & rsquo ; s children & rsquo ; s and women & rsquo ; s organ and human right organ ? whi haven & rsquo ; t i heard your cri ? & rdquo ; she conclud , & ldquo ; i plead to the world and human right council & ndash ; put an end to our suffer , to the suffer of all the hostag , to the crime against human . speak out against the exist on our planet of thi terror organ . free the hostag . & rdquo ; steven spielberg ' s remark on rise radic and intoler & nbsp ; honor thi week by the univers of southern california , in recognit of hi work with the usc shoah foundat , which he found in 1994 , filmmak steven spielberg , who ha featur the holocaust and the murder of isra athlet at the munich olymp among hi best product , said & ldquo ; the echo of histori are unmistak in our current climat . radic view creat a danger environ and lead to a societi that no longer celebr differ . & rdquo ; greerfc @ gmail . com