israel will not hold discuss with jordan about the statu quo on the templ mount in the come week in light of amman & rsquo ; s incit against israel , a senior isra diplomat offici said on thursday . the offici refer to jordanian prime minist bisher al - khasawneh & rsquo ; s prais for palestinian who physic attack isra amid riot on the templ mount , and spoke after jordan submit a paper to the us call for israel to relinquish control of the holi site . though foreign minist yair lapid and defens minist benni gantz met with jordanian king abdullah ii ahead of the muslim month of ramadan to tri to lower tension , israel view jordan as have been obstruct to the aim of bring calm to jerusalem in recent week , especi in light of khasawneh & rsquo ; s remark amid palestinian riot when passov and ramadan coincid . as such , israel doe not plan to hold discuss about the templ mount with jordan , the senior diplomat sourc said , until a seri of potenti date for palestinian terrorist group to incit violenc in the come week come to an end : the last friday of ramadan thi week , independ day on may 5 , nakba day on may 15 , and jerusalem day on may 29 . & ldquo ; we & rsquo ; re not talk about anyth other than get through thi time quietli and peac , & rdquo ; said the sourc , ad that washington did not convey amman & rsquo ; s demand to jerusalem , and is tri to reduc tension over the templ mount . jordan told the us it demand that israel respect the & ldquo ; histor statu quo & rdquo ; at the templ mount , the holiest site in judaism , on top of which al - aqsa mosqu wa built . among jordan & rsquo ; s demand wa that israel end restrict on the number of staff member from the jerusalem islam wakf , and put the wakf in charg of all visit by non - muslim . visit to the templ mount have grown more popular among jew in recent year , with a record 4 , 625 jew ascend the holi site dure passov . jordan view the increas number of visitor as a violat of the statu quo . in addit , small number of jewish visitor have pray on the templ mount , post video onlin of themselv do so , and bring journalist along . lapid and the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic have said there is no isra polici to allow jew to pray on the templ mount , but that stop everi jew from silent worship is not possibl . the foreign minist also express discomfort last week with deni jew freedom of worship , though he said the statu quo would not be chang . amman ha taken issu with the use of the term & ldquo ; freedom of worship & rdquo ; in the context of the templ mount becaus they see it as impli jew are allow to pray there . by a longstand agreement , jordan & rsquo ; s royal famili is the custodian of al - aqsa and exercis that role mostli through the wakf . when israel and jordan made peac in 1994 , israel commit to & ldquo ; respect the present , special role of the hashemit kingdom of jordan in muslim holi shrine in jerusalem . & rdquo ; when jordan occupi the old citi of jerusalem from 1949 to 1967 , it did not allow jew access to the templ mount or the western wall , despit a formal commit that it would . earlier thi month , khasawneh said he & ldquo ; prais everi palestinian and jordanian islam wakf worker who stand tall like a turret , and those who throw rock at the pro - zionist who are defil al - aqsa mosqu while under the secur of the isra occup govern . & rdquo ; the jordanian prime minist also repeat the theori , advanc by the palestinian and firmli deni by israel , that the jewish state plan to divid the templ mount into separ space and hour for jew and muslim as it did in the tomb of the patriarch in hebron . that theori wa use by group like hama and palestinian islam jihad in the past month to spark riot in jerusalem . reuter contribut to thi report .