unit nation envoy nickolay mladenov , a diplomat pillar on which the uneasi calm that ha character the isra - palestinian conflict over the last six year ha rest , quietli left for hi home countri of bulgaria at the end of last month . the impact of hi departur on the conflict ha not garner as much attent as that of the tumultu regim chang in washington and the elector chao in israel . hi absenc , howev , leav a chasm in day - to - day , back - channel region statesmanship precis at a time of diplomat upheav . a former bulgarian foreign minist , he arriv in jerusalem from a un post in iraq in 2015 at an inauspici moment in the conflict . he took over what , dure the time of hi predecessor , robert serri , had been the highli contenti post of un special coordin for the middl east peac process . for almost six year mladenov wa a peac envoy without a peac process . from the moment of hi arriv and until hi departur , there were no direct isra - palestinian negoti . until the final month of hi post , a larger isra - arab peac process , which ha now fill israel with hope , wa absent and larg consid unthink . dure hi first two year , the obama administr had larg given up on isra - palestinian peac and for the next three , the process remain frozen as both parti await a plan from us presid donald trump . in an interview with the jerusalem post in 2016 , mladenov spoke of the limit of hi posit in light of the current realiti , note that one would have to be & ldquo ; day dream & rdquo ; to imagin that palestinian author presid mahmoud abba and prime minist benjamin netanyahu were about to sit down to negoti . & ldquo ; we don & rsquo ; t believ that , current , the way thing stand , negoti are possibl , & rdquo ; he said . in the interim , he explain , & ldquo ; our role is to actual figur out how we can creat the condit under which such a process can resum in a meaning manner . & rdquo ; then he went about show just how meaning small , behind - the - scene step could actual be . he threw out the script of how hi offic had oper and creat a new process that met the realiti he saw out hi window . the institut for nation secur studi at tel aviv univers dub hi form of diplomaci the & ldquo ; mladenov approach . & rdquo ; nowher wa that felt more than in israel & rsquo ; s conflict with hama in gaza , which had thrice broken out into war & ndash ; in the winter of 2008 - 2009 , in 2012 and in the summer of 2014 . dure hi six year in offic , gaza crise erupt , rocket flew and the idf struck hama target . but each time , just as israel wa on the brink of war , effect behind - the - scene diplomaci by hi offic restor an uneasi calm . thi includ the eventu neutral of the hama - led great march of return , which began in 2018 and spark weekli and at time daili violent riot on israel & rsquo ; s border and includ the launch of incendiari balloon against southern israel . part of hi success wa due to the fact that he wa not a stranger to the middl east and that he came from a small neutral countri . he had alreadi visit the region as a foreign minist and had tie with isra , palestinian and arab countri , includ the gulf state . he did not lose those connect , and some of them were enhanc dure hi time in iraq . mladenov had an easi manner about him that made peopl feel as though he were their friend , even when he wa critic and hold them to task . former us ambassador dan shapiro said , & ldquo ; he did someth that other who have held that posit have found difficult to do , which is to win the confid and trust of all the relev player . & rdquo ; thi includ , shapiro said , & ldquo ; the isra govern and the palestinian author , the arab state , the american and european leader and hama . & rdquo ; shapiro ad that & ldquo ; becaus he had that trust and wa seen as a straight shooter , & rdquo ; he could & ldquo ; call ani parti out for an action that need to be address or chang . & rdquo ; in addit , mladenov wa & ldquo ; veri creativ and quit determin . he wa far more effect than mani who have held that posit , & rdquo ; said shapiro . mladenov not onli creat a mechan of commun for defus crisi situat with gaza , but he augment that with link gaza calm with increas humanitarian aid , in a way that offer posit incent that gave hama a reason to hold it fire . from the start he breath new life into the gaza reconstruct mechan , by which construct materi wa allow into the strip to enabl palestinian to rebuild home destroy dure the 2014 war . he help move forward project on water and wastewat and electr , includ increas fund . in 2018 , he expand those effort , bring in extra aid , includ cash for needi famili , from qatar . mladenov wa vocal about hi idea , speak often to the isra public at confer and event , includ those organ by civic societi group , by way of strengthen on the ground effort toward peac . he wrote tweet and blog post and gave monthli brief to the un secur council . at a time when few were say anyth , he wa alway say someth . mladenov side with the palestinian on the idea of a two - state solut at the pre - 1967 line , as he warn against a one - state realiti to the conflict . he wa a persist oppon of settlement activ , which he saw as a stumbl block to the conflict . but he also support israel in it critic of hama and the pa support of terror and incit , put that critiqu in write in the 2016 quartet blueprint to resolv the isra - palestinian conflict , which he help author . dure hi six year , mladenov wa often the first un offici to condemn terrorist attack or to chastis the palestinian . he also call repeatedli for fatah - hama uniti and urg the pa to maintain it secur cooper with israel and to accept the tax levi israel had collect for it . at time he wa accus by palestinian of what they perceiv to be a stanc that wa too pro - israel . mladenov had not initi believ that isra - arab peac wa possibl prior to resolut of the isra - palestinian conflict . hi opinion were diametr opposit to those of the trump administr . still , he ha been credit with help the us see how the threat of isra west bank annex could creat a window of opportun for isra - arab normal . under the rubric of the abraham accord the trump administr launch in august , israel open tie with the unit arab emir , bahrain , morocco and sudan . & nbsp ; the success of those initi wa help , in part , by the calm that exist in gaza , which mladenov had help maintain . had there been a war in the previou two year , the option for normal deal might not have exist . shapiro said that mladenov & ldquo ; didn & rsquo ; t resolv the conflict , obvious , but help contain it , amelior it [ and ] help resolv and prevent crise when they pop up . & rdquo ; german ambassador susann wasum - rainer said , & ldquo ; he wa tireless in hi effort to make small step that could eventu lead to bigger progress . he never allow himself to get frustrat at ani obstacl , and remain alway convinc that the pain realiti of the conflict for the peopl live here gave the un and the intern commun an oblig to stay engag . & rdquo ; she ad , & ldquo ; even dure all these year without negoti between the two side , he succeed to uphold the intern consensu on the need for a two - state solut . & rdquo ; in sum up hi own time in israel in a blog post he wrote befor he left , mladenov said , & ldquo ; i have work on uphold the intern consensu that the goal is of a two - state solut , i have warn of the danger of the erod statu quo , support intra - palestinian reconcili effort , and , most of all , focus on prevent diplomaci . & ldquo ; togeth with egypt , and with critic support from qatar and other in the intern commun , the unit nation ha play a pivot role in prevent anoth devast war in gaza . i have spoken out against injustic . i have condemn terror , & rdquo ; he wrote . he ad that it wa a mistak to view the conflict from the narrow len of territori . & ldquo ; thi conflict is not just a conflict over land , for both peopl have the right to call israel and palestin their home . it is not onli a conflict over histori & ndash ; person and collect . it is a conflict over the veri right of two nation to coexist , & rdquo ; he wrote . & ldquo ; perhap today is not the time for big intern initi , but the time for step & ndash ; mayb small , sometim mayb bold & ndash ; that protect that goal of two - state , & rdquo ; mladenov wrote . he urg isra and palestinian to seiz common threat such as the covid - 19 pandem and opportun such as those provid by the abraham accord to find a way to return to the negoti tabl . seen as a rise star at the un and as a possibl un secretari - gener , he had plan to leav for a un post in libya . but at the last moment he bow out for famili and person reason , and will be replac by veteran diplomat from noway tor wennesland . he wa so vocal and so omnipres , speak at small ngo event and shake hand with head of state throughout the region , that it almost seem as though he had becom a perman fixtur to the conflict . the small achiev on the isra - palestinian track over the last six year have depend on a larg cadr of diplomat , but mladenov is credit as the behind - the - scene offici who maxim those effort to keep the wheel of a two - state solut slowli churn . he wa a vocal envoy of peac on behalf of both palestinian and isra , who ha left the stage at a time when hi calm influenc would have been essenti to maintain horizon of possibl for isra - arab and isra - palestinian peac .