a group of famili member of hostag and parent of soldier and reservist petit the high court of justic on thursday to demand that the attorney gener & rsquo ; s offic check whether prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s wartim decis were affect by hi ongo crimin trial . the petition , repres by adv . dafna holtz lechner wrote that they had sent a letter on may 8 in which they inquir about whether the prime minist & rsquo ; s conflict of interest agreement , which he sign in 2020 , appli to hi decis - make regard the war . the petition said that they had not receiv an answer and demand that the high court direct the attorney to answer immedi . the may 8 letter to the attorney - gener wa base on a high court rule day befor . the rule turn down a petit similar to the current one but note that if the attorney - gener , gali baharav - miara , believ that there wa a conflict of interest between the prime minist run the war and hi crimin trial , she would need to updat the agreement accordingli . hostag famili claim against netanyahuth petition argu , for exampl , that netanyahu had request sever delay in hi crimin trial due to hi be busi run the war . thi show that the prime minist had an incent to prolong the war as a mean to delay hi trial . further , the petition said in a statement that they had also argu that they were the citizen most affect by decis regard the war and that decis by the prime minist could impact them immens regard either the length and scope of reserv duti , the danger to soldier , the well be of the hostag or all the abov . holtz lechner said in the statement , & ldquo ; we have heard politician and secur offici say everi day that in issu that are fate for the state of israel and it citizen , netanyahu ha act base on person consider and not on the nation interest . if thi is inde the case , the attorney - gener must act with utmost urgenc to respond to the request by those who paid and continu to pay the price of the failur [ on octob 7 ] and the ongo war . & rdquo ; & nbsp ;