the border polic on wednesday shot and kill a mask palestinian in shuafat , who had aim a realist - look dummi gun at them , as he fled . a video show some of the chao surround polic and idf forc prepar to demolish the hous of terrorist udai tamimi in shuafat , show sever moment in the back and forth between the side . at one point in the video , the now - deceas palestinian is seen aim hi `` gun `` at isra forc and then lower it when a larg car pass by in between the side . then at anoth point , the palestinian is seen again aim hi `` gun `` at isra forc . while one can not see the action of the isra forc in the video , at a certain point , the palestinian turn around and start run away . after a few second of run , he also toss away the `` gun . '' a few second later in the video , he fall down dead . polic say they didn ' t know the gun wa fakefrom the limit vantag point of the video , it is possibl that : 1 ) he wa shot at onli after he drop the dummi gun and fled ; 2 ) while hold the gun he aim at polic but then manag to toss the gun and run anoth 30 - 40 feet befor collaps ; or that 3 ) the polic start shoot at him while he held the gun but may have onli hit him after he wa flee . the polic said he wa hit while still aim the gun at them . the polic report that they discov the & ldquo ; gun & rdquo ; wa a dummi weapon onli after the fact . at the same time , it wa unclear whether the kill wa justifi . if he wa hit befor he wa flee it wa certainli justifi . if he wa hit after he drop the `` weapon `` and fled , it get hairier . rule of engag in such situat do provid for fire at the leg of such a person who ha present a threat in order to prevent their escap and arrest them . an initi respons respons from the polic did not address the issu of the palestinian drop hi weapon and flee , but did highlight that he had shown all of the open sign of present a threat . & nbsp ; the idf declin to comment , say that even though there were soldier in the area , the incid had been manag by the border polic . & nbsp ; the polic would have been in charg given that the incid wa take place in east jerusalem as oppos to the west bank , where the idf ha primaci . tamimi wa kill in mid - octob when he wa shot dead in a fail shoot attack at the entranc to ma & rsquo ; aleh adumim , south of the isra capit . he arriv at the entranc to the west bank citi and open fire at nearbi secur personnel . accord to unit hatzalah volunt emt akiva skolnick , the terrorist wa kill by return fire from the guard . a grenad and knife were found on hi person . '' two highli experienc secur guard that were at the checkpoint at the citi entranc neutral the terrorist immedi , with braveri and a lot of resourc and without fear . '' the shooter wa respons for the kill of 18 - year - old militari polic offic noa lazar on octob 8 when he open fire at a checkpoint near the jerusalem neighborhood of shuafat . a 30 - year - old secur guard remain in intens care , sedat and on a ventil . a third person , a soldier , wa also injur . & nbsp ;