unit nation secretari - gener ant & oacut ; nio guterr spoke posit of a new grassroot plan to creat an isra - palestinian confeder when he met with it author in new york on friday . & ldquo ; the secretari - gener receiv [ former isra justic minist ] yossi beilin and [ former palestinian negoti ] hiba husseini , who present him with their report on the & lsquo ; holi land confeder & rsquo ; process , & rdquo ; guterr & rsquo ; spokesman st & eacut ; phane dujarr said after the meet . & ldquo ; he thank them for their use contribut to tri and achiev a last solut to the conflict , & rdquo ; he said . guterr ha been a strong advoc of a two - state resolut to the conflict and reaffirm that stanc at the meet . & ldquo ; the secretari - gener reaffirm the un commit to support the parti to achiev a just and peac solut to the conflict , includ through the middl east quartet and the establish of two state , base on 1967 line , with jerusalem as the capit of both state , & rdquo ; dujarr said . thi would be & ldquo ; in line with un resolut , intern law and previou agreement , & rdquo ; he said . friday & rsquo ; s meet mark the end of a seri of high - level convers among a small group of isra and palestinian last week in washington and new york . they met with us deputi secretari of state wendi sherman and the nomine for assist secretari of state for the bureau of near eastern affair , barbara leaf , as well a number of democrat member of congress and the senat , includ sen . chri van hollen of maryland . the meet with guterr last for 40 minut and includ four of hi advis , beilin said . the un head said the plan could perhap help reviv the peac process , and he express regret at the absenc of negoti . beilin said he had ask guterr if he would includ the confeder plan in hi talk point with leader in the region and if he could help the group use the un platform for debat and discours on the confeder . & ldquo ; he [ guterr ] promis that in hi talk with hi interlocutor , as he said , he will rais thi option of a confeder , & rdquo ; beilin said , ad that separ , & ldquo ; for the first time after mani year , [ guterr said ] he can have a dialogu with the isra govern . & rdquo ; brig .- gen . ( ret . ) shlomo brom , prof . omar dajani and dr . saliba sarsar also particip in the meet . when they met with sherman , she wa particularli interest in the section about settler remain in their home , given that the issu of evacu the settlement is one of the most difficult one on the road to peac , beilin said . sherman did not endors the plan , but she said it wa product and that they had & ldquo ; not given up & rdquo ; and were tri to find a realist path to peac , he said . the holi land confeder plan propos a european union - style confeder of an independ isra and palestinian state base on pre - 1967 border as outlin by the 2003 geneva initi . thi new plan is not formal connect to the initi or to the organ that continu to promot it . beilin wa instrument in the format of the 1993 oslo accord and the geneva initi , which he ha incorpor into hi latest endeavor . among the distinct featur of the plan is a joint isra - palestinian narr of the histori of both peopl . the plan also provid a blueprint by which settler would remain in their home as resid but not citizen of a palestinian state . in exchang , a similar number of palestinian would be allow to live in israel as resid but not citizen . beilin and husseini have publish their plan at a time when few isra and palestinian are pursu talk . the formal peac process ha been frozen for almost eight year . prime minist naftali bennett ha been blunt about hi opposit to the creation of a palestinian state , and us presid joe biden ha not spoken of ani intent to put forward a peac process at thi time .