thousand of right - wing activist march tuesday to homesh to stake their claim to the remot west bank hilltop that israel abandon 17 - year ago , despit heavi critic from the left for stoke tension with the palestinian . '' we came to commit to settl all area of the land of israel , '' said mk bezalel smotrich . those at the march demand that the govern author the homesh yeshiva , which is illeg locat on the hilltop and to rebuild the homesh settlement that wa destroy in 2005 after the gaza pullout . smotrich , who head the religi zionist parti , is among those politician who want to see an all right - wing govern replac the exist coalit made up of parti on the right , center , and left of the polit map , includ the isra - arab parti ra ' am . & nbsp ; '' i have no expect from thi govern that ha surrend to islam , '' said smotrich . a march make it way by the west bank settlement of homesh ( credit : samaria region council ) the homesh march spark clash at the entryway to the burqa and bazaria villag in northern samaria , in which score of palestinian were injur , includ 11 with rubber bullet , accord to the palestinian news agenc wafa . settler and the right have been brace for the idf to evacu the yeshiva . samaria region council head yossi dagan said that `` the thousand who came here today , did so to give a messag to the govern . don ' t touch homesh . `` & nbsp ; the idf `` must stop with the evict and the checkpoint , '' he said ad that the `` nation is with homesh `` and pledg `` we will rebuild it `` along with the settlement of sa - nur which wa also destroy in 2005 . '' a govern that abandon both the negev and homesh will be replac with a govern worthi of the peopl of israel - a full right - wing govern , '' dagan said . mk idit silman ( yamina ) who spark a polit crisi when she resign from the coalit earlier thi month , also particip in the march . other particip in the march includ rel of terror victim from homesh , includ yeshiva student yehuda dimentman , 25 , who wa kill by a palestinian gunman in decemb , and & nbsp ; shalom `` shuli `` har - melekh , 25 . a resid of the former homesh settlement , har - melekh wa kill by a palestinian gunman in a drive - by - shoot near ramallah in 2003 .