isra soccer club who will be particip in european competit thi come season found out over the weekend who they will be face in their respect qualifi tournament . maccabi tel aviv , maccabi haifa , maccabi petah tikva and hapoel beersheba will all look to wind their way through the qualifi round in order to punch their ticket to the brand - new leagu phase of the uefa champion leagu , europa leagu and europa confer leagu . the new leagu phase consist of 36 team for each competit and team will be drawn against eight differ oppon , with four game be play at home and four away for the champion leagu and europa leagu , while the confer leagu team will play against six differ oppon . at the end of the leagu , team 1 - 8 will automat qualifi for the round - of - 16 while team 9 - 24 will face each other in a knockout playoff round to advanc , while team 25 - 36 are elimin from all competit . in the knockout phase , all tie are contest both home and away culmin in a one - match final . maccabi tel aviv will particip in champion leagu qualifi and is look to advanc to the leagu phase of the prestigi and lucr competit for the first time sinc 2015 , where it play the like of chelsea , dynamo kyiv and porto in the group stage ( and lost all six game while score one goal ) . the yellow - and - blue will begin qualifi in the second round where it will play the winner of the first - round game between virtu a . c . 1964 from san marino and fotbal club fcsb of romania , with the formerli known steaua bucurești be a heavi favorit to advanc and play maccabi . first match of the second round for maccabith first match of the second round for maccabi will be away from home juli 23 to 24 with the home leg the follow week , howev due to the ongo war that game will also take place on the road . alreadi , 29 team have qualifi for the leagu phase with seven place be up for grab through the qualifi competit & ndash ; five be through the champion rout and two via the leagu rout . fotbal club fcsb wa found in 1947 and play it game at the nation stadium in bucharest . fcsb is consid to be the biggest club in romania and ha won the most leagu championship ( 27 ) and cup ( 24 ) . in 1985 / 86 , it won the european championship befor it wa renam the champion leagu , when it defeat barcelona on penalti and wa also the runner - up to ac milan in 1988 / 89 . last season , fcsb won the romanian championship after an eight - year drought , when it took the leagu by three point over second place cluj . maccabi haifa will take on a rel newcom to european soccer in fc sabah from azerbaijan in confer leagu second round qualifi with the home leg take place juli 25 and the return leg slate for the next week in baku . sabah play at the 13 , 000 seat bank respublika arena , and the game there will not be an easi task for the green . sabah wa establish seven year ago and quickli move into the first divis , where it ha been one of the best team in the countri . last season , the club finish in third place and the year befor it end the campaign in second place . that allow it to compet in europ for the first time , where it made it to the third round of confer leagu qualifi befor be elimin by partizan belgrad . hapoel beersheba will also play in confer leagu qualifi against bulgarian outfit pfc cherno more varna , which finish last season in third place of it domest leagu , just one point away from cska sofia and 13 point off of first place ludogoret . cherno ha captur four leagu titl over the cours of it 111 - year histori , with the most recent come way back in 1938 , with it last cup and super cup have been won in 2015 which led to europa leagu qualifi the follow season . in 2008 to 2009 , the bulgarian side play against maccabi netanya in the uefa cup qualifi and pass the diamond citi squad 3 - 1 on aggreg in the two game that they play . maccabi petah tikva last play in the group stage of european competit back in the 2005 and 2006 uefa cup and the wait to featur in continent play may need to wait yet for anoth season as it will face portugues mainstay fc braga , which finish in fourth place in domest leagu action and play in the 30 , 000 - seat municip stadium . daniel sousa wa recent appoint as the club & rsquo ; s head coach after have work for mani year under andr & eacut ; villa - boa and work at porto , chelsea , tottenham and marseil among other befor head out on hi own when he manag gil vincent in 2022 and 2023 and arouca thi past season .