the french navi ' s languedoc frigat intercept two drone fire from a houthi - control area in yemen which were head straight toward it on saturday , the gener staff of the french arm forc said on saturday night . the two drone were launch from near al hudaydah , a port citi control by the iran - back houthi , befor they were intercept about 110 km . from the coast , accord to the navi . the first drone wa launch at the vessel at about 10 : 30 p . m . israel time , and the second wa launch at 12 : 30 a . m . the languedoc ha been deploy in the indian ocean maritim zone sinc august and recent accompani the us navi ' s uss dwight d . eisenhow aircraft carri through the strait of hormuz into the persian gulf . & nbsp ; earlier on saturday , the spokesman for the houthi ' s militari forc , yahya sare ' e , threaten to attack ani ship head toward israel , no matter which countri the vessel belong to . '' in order to ensur the safeti of maritim navig , we warn all ship and compani against deal with isra port , '' said sare ' e . houthi escal attack on maritim traffic in the red sea , gulf of adenin recent week , the houthi have escal their attack on civilian and militari vessel in the red sea and the gulf of aden . on wednesday , the movement said that it launch ballist missil toward eilat , with the idf say it intercept a missil over the red sea . addit , the us navi said it shot down a drone that wa launch from a houthi - control area of yemen . a few day earlier , three commerci vessel came under attack in the southern red sea , with the houthi say they had conduct drone and missil attack against two isra vessel . the idf later said that the two ship were not connect to israel . us central command ( centcom ) said at the time that four attack had been conduct against three separ commerci vessel in the southern red sea . the three vessel are connect to 14 differ countri . accord to centcom , the arleigh - burk class destroy uss carney respond to distress call issu by the ship and provid assist . while respond to the call , the destroy shot down a drone launch from houthi control area . although the drone wa head toward the carney , it specif target is not clear . no damag wa caus to the us vessel and no injuri were report . '' these attack repres a direct threat to intern commerc and maritim secur , '' said centcom at the time . `` they have jeopard the live of intern crew repres multipl countri around the world . '' we also have everi reason to believ that these attack , while launch by the houthi in yemen , are fulli enabl by iran , '' & nbsp ; it said . `` the unit state will consid all appropri respons in full coordin with it intern alli and partner . ''