everyth about the movi june zero , which open in theater throughout israel on may 2 , is unusu . thi includ the fact that the director and co - writer of thi quintessenti israel movi , which tell sever stori connect to the build of the oven that wa use to cremat adolf eichmann after hi execut in 1962 , is an american : jake paltrow , and ye , he & rsquo ; s gwyneth & rsquo ; s brother . paltrow ha made sever previou film , includ the excel 2007 the good night , about a man who want to achiev in hi dream what he couldn & rsquo ; t accomplish while awak , star gwyneth paltrow , penelop cruz , danni devito , and martin freeman . paltrow , whose late father , the director , bruce paltrow , wa jewish , becam interest in the stori surround the eichmann trial , especi concern the fate of eichmann & rsquo ; s bodi , and began research them in detail . decid that for the sake of authent , ani movi about thi topic would have to be in hebrew and need a screenwrit who wa an isra nativ , he brought on director tom shoval , who made the movi youth and shake your care away , to collabor with him on the screenplay . june zero present three stori that are connect themat and creat a vivid portrait of the divers of life in israel in the earli & rsquo ; 60 . we know that eichmann , the notori nazi command who wa respons for implement the final solut and caus the death of million of jew , wa hang outsid a ramla prison on june 1 , 1962 . & nbsp ; howev , peopl forget that he spent about two year in israel , as investig interrog him befor the trial , dure hi trial , and in the period of appeal that follow the trial . there wa a great fear on the part of the govern & ndash ; a justifi fear & ndash ; that a concentr camp survivor might assassin him as reveng for the murder of their famili . sinc the vast major of holocaust victim were ashkenazim , onli mizrahi polic were allow to guard eichmann , and the movi focus on haim ( yoav levi ) , hi moroccan - born main guard . & nbsp ; we hear eichmann speak and see hi feet and other part of hi bodi & ndash ; such as hi neck , in a harrow scene when he is get hi hair cut and haim worri that the barber will tri to slit hi throat & ndash ; but he is not a charact in the film . instead , we identifi with haim who faith carri out the bizarr task of ensur that no harm come to one of the most notori war crimin in histori . other stori portray in the filmanoth stori featur david ( noam ovadia ) , a mischiev 13 - year - old immigr from libya , who ha been sent to work part - time in a factori run by a gruff owner ( tzahi grad ) . thi factori is given the assign to build an oven for cremat , a method of bodi dispos not use in israel sinc both jewish and muslim religi law prohibit it use . the idea wa to cremat eichmann & rsquo ; s bodi and scatter the ash outsid israel & rsquo ; s territori water , so there would be no grave that could becom a spot where pro - nazi could make pilgrimag to . for the factori and it staff , it wa a race against time to creat thi oven that is unlik anyth they have ever made befor , and they are aid by david & rsquo ; s bold and by the thorough of a survivor ( ami smolarchik ) , who struggl with hi memori . the third section is set in poland , as micha ( tom hagi ) , a young holocaust survivor investig eichmann & rsquo ; s crime , revisit the ghetto and other site where he and hi famili suffer and tell hi stori to visitor from abroad . there he meet a repres ( joy rieger ) of an isra deleg and the two engag in debat over how best to commemor the holocaust . she is critic of dwell too long on the detail of what happen , while he feel it is hi mission to tell hi stori to the world , and for all survivor to tell their stori . in a statement releas by the produc , paltrow , who visit israel mani time to research the movi , said that he felt that it wa urgent to tell stori from the holocaust to a younger gener around the world who may not understand what realli happen and that he want to tell stori peopl had not heard befor . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; what distinguish thi film from other holocaust film is the examin of the subject through the most obviou physic and polit consequ of the holocaust : the state of israel . israel is not onli a countri where holocaust survivor and their descend live , but it divers creat a rare mosaic of cultur and origin . the eichmann trial wa a turn point in the young countri & rsquo ; s understand of the atroc commit by the nazi in europ . & rdquo ; while mani film , both documentari and drama , have focus on the dramat eichmann trial in jerusalem , paltrow chose to start the movi after the end of the trial . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; our film is intend to lay the foundat for understand the complex of israel , from the aftermath of the holocaust to today . thi is not the stori of the surviv of a peopl in crisi , it is the stori of the ident crisi of a peopl after surviv . and throughout it there is also laughter , there is happi , there is sad and tear , conflict and drama , & rdquo ; he said . tom shoval spoke warmli and appreci about collabor with paltrow on the screenplay . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; jake got interest in everyth connect to the eichmann trial , it wa a way for him to connect to hi jewish root and ident , it & rsquo ; s someth he & rsquo ; s spoken about a lot . & rdquo ; paltrow becam veri interest in israel in the earli & rsquo ; 60 , shoval said , and after he read an articl about the build of the oven , he knew it would be the centerpiec of the film . paltrow wa visit israel to work on pre - product for the film when the covid pandem broke out , and he wa stuck in israel for a few week . he and shoval use the time to fine - tune the script . paltrow even file paperwork to emigr to israel so that he could stay in the countri to keep work . & ldquo ; it wa a long journey , fill with unexpect turn , & rdquo ; said shoval . at first , they had plan the movi to be mainli about the build of the oven , but then they realiz it need to be a & ldquo ; panorama of isra stori of thi period . thi interest us and we found so mani fascin stori , we knew we need to includ them . & rdquo ; the decis to move outsid of israel and back to poland to tell micha & rsquo ; s stori wa also import in their write process . & ldquo ; the movi is about memori and histori , about what it is to bear wit to the past ... befor the eichmann trial , it wasn & rsquo ; t accept for holocaust survivor to tell their stori in public in israel ... and it wa at thi moment when the survivor receiv a kind of valid of their experi . it wa a turn point and we want to show a charact who experi thi as part of the film . & rdquo ; the wealth of stori they discov & ldquo ; made it possibl for us to present a vari wide - rang portrait of israel , to show the ashkenazim and the mizrahim , the secular and religi , the jew and the arab , the survivor and those who weren & rsquo ; t in the holocaust , and how it all came togeth in thi stori ... & rdquo ; said shoval . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s a stori that hasn & rsquo ; t been told befor , and it wa import to us to tell it . & rdquo ;