it look as if far - right leader itamar ben - gvir & rsquo ; s power base is expand and may even result in the possibl of him becom the next prime minist . & nbsp ; after all , pollster alreadi gave him mani more seat than naftali bennett had score when he becam prime minist . ben - gvir & rsquo ; s neg attitud toward arab and hi public back of polic even when they appear to have commit transgress will earn him mani vote from within the polic forc and their famili . he is a true discipl of the late meir kahan , who advoc the transfer of all arab out of israel . no one should ignor the write on the wall . isra design who work for roberto caval ■ sever lead isra fashion design work for roberto caval , the icon italian design who die last week . among the first wa tamara yovel jone , who maintain a close friendship and profession relationship with him until hi die day . not onli that , but in her capac as head of the fashion design unit at shenkar and bezalel , she sent some of her more talent student to milan & nbsp ; to be inspir by caval , who had a veri posit attitud toward israel and isra & ndash ; particularli isra women whom he admir both for their beauti and their strength . in novemb 2011 , when motti reif , who inter alia is a well - known produc of fashion show , decid to reviv israel fashion week but call it tel aviv fashion week , caval came to inject addit glamour by open the event with a new collect of hi own . the reviv fashion week , after a veri long hiatu , did not have the extravaganza that had been the highlight of open of israel fashion week in the 1970 and 1980 , when the late lea gottlieb , the founder of gottex , and her star model , the late statuesqu and sensual tami ben ami , provid open night viewer with a glitter mix of la vega , pari , and milan . gottlieb had an innat sens of drama , which wa reflect both in her design and in her fashion show , though she herself wore modest classic . although there definit is a sens of glamour in the show produc by reif , it is more low - key and gear to commerc more than entertain . asid from that , there is veri littl new in fashion today . innov resid more in technolog than in style . in fact , perus of fashion public of the second half of the 1960 prove that what goe around come around . the design are exceedingli similar to those parad on fashion runway today . when caval came to tel aviv in 2011 , tel aviv fashion week , of which he wa the key attract , wa natur launch at the resid of the italian ambassador , who at that time wa luigi mattiolo . among the guest were tel aviv mayor ron huldai , intern fashion model and actress noa tishbi , and fashion design gideon oberson , whose beachwear rang wa the closest rival to gottex . in their heyday , israel fashion week were the countri & rsquo ; s best mean of imag promot , attract hundr of oversea buyer along with writer of lead fashion magazin and newspap . the design were eye - catch , and the isra model were tall , beauti , and grace . one of the reason that reif want to reviv fashion week wa that , just under a decad earlier , he had complet hi term as cultur attach & eacut ; to the isra consul in lo angel , where he wa extrem consciou of how israel wa perceiv . he want to promot the beauti lifestyl imag of israel rather than the militari one . the more tension there wa in the middl east , the more israel & rsquo ; s militari imag came to the fore . there is no doubt that caval help reif to get tel aviv fashion week off the ground , and for that israel & rsquo ; s fashion industri is deepli in debt to himbatman writer sign letter call for the return of biba famili & nbsp ; ■ a fond for the endur batman charact , who first appear in comic in 1939 , had the entir biba famili of kibbutz nir oz dress in some semblanc of batman for purim 2024 . on octob 7 , 2023 , they were among the hostag taken by hama to gaza . in late novemb , hama said that 10 - month - old kfir biba , hi four - year - old brother , ariel , and their mother , shiri , had been kill , but provid no proof to the claim . there is video evid that they were aliv when taken to gaza , and the hope in israel is that despit the inhuman condit to which the hostag are subject , the famili is still aliv . a petit organ by the david s . wyman institut for holocaust studi , in washington , dc , and sent to sheikh meshal bin hamad al thani , the ambassador of qatar , and motaz zahran , the ambassador of egypt , ha been sign by more than 50 writer , artist , and editor associ with the icon batman charact . the petit urg the two envoy to washington to press for the releas of ariel . the signatori on the letter includ mani of the most renown comic creator involv with the batman franchis . & ldquo ; everi hostag is equal import , but natur batman writer and artist feel a special connect to thi young bat - fan and hi famili , & rdquo ; said dr . rafael medoff , historian and director of the institut . & ldquo ; these comic creator have spent decad develop a hero who fight for the innoc and stand as a beacon of hope for hi commun , and we & rsquo ; re tri to channel that spirit through thi effort . & rdquo ; tweet the iranian drone attack on jerusalem ■ former us ambassador to israel martin indyk tweet dure the iranian assault on israel : from what one can see on cnn , iran & rsquo ; s drone and missil are target jerusalem ! that ha almost never happen befor , becaus of the sanctiti of the holi citi for muslim . mayb iran doesn & rsquo ; t valu al qud in the same way . it wa point out to him , in repli , that jerusalem ha been target sever time , but , as can be expect , on the whole jewish peopl agre with him , and muslim did not . a tweet from a latter sourc said that indyk wa onc a respons diplomat , but that now it seem that he want eylon levi & rsquo ; s job . eylon levi and dougla murray ■ a video in which former govern spokesman levi is seen interview dougla murray is do the round on social media . though levi is fierc pro - israel , murray may be even more so . the two don & rsquo ; t agre on everyth and argu a lot , but in a fairli civil manner , which make the interview more interest . what they have in common , other than their attitud to israel , are their beauti modul british accent . both are oxford alumni , and both are journalist and author . khamenei give netanyahu a lifelin & nbsp ; ■ despit all the rhetor and the missil bombard last saturday night , one ha to wonder whether iran & rsquo ; s suprem leader ayatollah ali khamenei actual want to keep benjamin netanyahu in offic , in accord with the old adag & ldquo ; better the devil you know than the one you don & rsquo ; t . & rdquo ; netanyahu & rsquo ; s wane popular & ndash ; even in right - wing circl & ndash ; suddenli revers in hi favor as hi year of warn about the iranian threat leap from obsess to realiti . thi wa bibi & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; aha ! i told you so & rdquo ; moment . though presum as concern as anyon els in israel , he & rsquo ; s unlik to send khamenei a thank - you note , but there & rsquo ; s littl doubt that khamenei gave him a lifelin , though in do so the ayatollah lost some of hi own clout and wa wide castig in the intern commun . if anyth good came out of the iranian belliger , it wa the digit traffic of the oversea rel and friend of ten of thousand of isra resid , who all want to be sure that the recipi of their messag were all right . the widespread concern of peopl live in differ time zone and countri wa amaz and heartwarm . it wa also a sign that when israel is in troubl , diaspora jew ralli to help physic , moral , emot , and financi . when we speak of ourselv as brother and sister , it may sound trite , but it happen to be true . kaori matsutomi and israel & nbsp ; ■ of cours , it & rsquo ; s not just jew who care . dure the time she spent in israel , kaori matsutomi , the wife of shigeo matsutomi , who wa then japan & rsquo ; s ambassador to israel , made mani friend due to her vivaci person . she ha maintain contact with sever of them & ndash ; particularli sinc octob 7 , and again sinc the iranian missil blast last weekend . she enjoy her time in israel and would like to come back . meanwhil , japan & rsquo ; s ministri of foreign affair ha announc that koichi mizushima , japan & rsquo ; s most recent ambassador to israel , ha been appoint as hi countri & rsquo ; s envoy to south korea . thi will be mizushima & rsquo ; s second stint in seoul , where he previous serv as a minist . hi new appoint becam effect immedi . israel - poland diplomat exchang & nbsp ; ■ though japan is quick to send successor , poland is still drag it heel in send a new ambassador to israel . marek magierowski , who wa the last polish ambassador to serv here , wa recal in august 2021 and sent to washington . thirteen month ago , follow a diplomat semi - freez , poland announc that it wa send an ambassador . in the spirit of the reviv of mutual diplomat exchang , israel did send an ambassador in the person of yacov livn , who is current have a veri tough time becaus some peopl on poland & rsquo ; s extrem right are accus israel of deliber murder damien sobol , the polish victim of an accident shoot of worker of the world central kitchen . taiwan : israel ' s constant friend & nbsp ; ■ nonetheless , a lot of the animu level at israel for refus to call a ceasefir ha subsid sinc iran attempt to make good on it threat against israel . among the constant friend of israel is taiwan , whose presid tsai ing - wen met thi week with a cross - parti knesset deleg led by yesh atid mk boaz toporovski , who chair the israel - taiwan parliamentari friendship group . member of the deleg includ mk boaz bismuth , vladimir beliak , and matti sarfatti - harcavi , who were accompani to the presid & rsquo ; s offic by maya yaron , repres of the israel econom and cultur offic in taipei . tsai comment that bilater interact between taiwan and israel have recent been veri close . she indic that in addit to regular dialogu on energi , the environ , and the economi , taiwan and israel have sign agreement to strengthen exchang in educ , public health , tourism , and other domain . tsai ad that she look forward to taiwan and israel leverag their industri strength and continu to deepen their partnership , base on their share valu of freedom and democraci , to jointli build more resili global suppli chain . tsai also express her sincer concern and sympathi follow iran & rsquo ; s attack on israel and condemn the use of violenc to undermin global peac and stabil . she thank the deleg for it support of taiwan and express appreci to toporovski for hi activ promot of cooper on youth educ and humanitarian aid between taiwan and israel , and hi consist support on social media and in op - ed for taiwan & rsquo ; s particip in intern forum . refer to israel as an import global hub for start - up , tsai said that taiwan & rsquo ; s industri technolog research institut , asia silicon valley develop agenc , and major manufactur are all eager to explor opportun to further cooper with israel . toporovski call taiwan & ldquo ; a beacon of democrat and liber valu & rdquo ; and commend tsai as & ldquo ; a beacon of democrat and liber leadership . & rdquo ; he offer israel & rsquo ; s condol for the loss of life and injuri after the earthquak in eastern taiwan , note that the taiwanes onc again show the world their resili and strength . he also spoke of the secur situat in the middl east and of the challeng confront israel . in thi context he said that israel will alway rememb taiwan & rsquo ; s support after the attack by hama on israel on octob 7 , and by iran last weekend . australian attach to the arava ■ the australian are come . it ha been mention previous in thi column that there ha been a steadi flow of solidar visit by individu and group from australia . australian friendship and support group have given gener to mani and vari institut and project in israel , but the folk from down under are particularli attach to the arava . among contributor to the develop of the arava are erwin and lotti vidor , whose son allan came with hi wife , sharon , on a familiar tour and were warmli welcom by meir zur , head of the central arava region council , and naomi becker , the ceo of the central arava develop compani . the senior vidor are long - term gener donor to keren kayemeth leisrael - jewish nation fund , which is respons for project all over israel , includ the arava . after see variou project , the vidor went to moshav hatzeva , where the vidor visitor & rsquo ; center is establish as a place where visitor can see a film and other exhibit that will give them an insight into agricultur . the coupl also visit sapir park with it charm lake , waterfal , sculptur garden , and picnic area . also in israel thi month were toni ziegler , presid of the new south wale friend of magen david adom , and hi wife , carolyn , who are both ardent , hand - on support of mda . when in israel , they go out with ambul driver to actual see for themselv how emerg treatment can often save live . and come up on may 20 is an israel reunion of alumni of mount scopu memori colleg , a pioneer of jewish day school in australia , which thi year celebr it 75th anniversari . there are mani mount scopu alumni , some of whom were actual pupil in the school & rsquo ; s kindergarten when it open , now live in israel . special guest at the reunion in tel aviv will be dave sharma , a former ambassador to israel and current a senat for new south wale , and daniel andrew , a former premier of the state of victoria . expert discuss agricultur research and develop & nbsp ; ■ last week , us and isra offici conven at the us nation arboretum for a seminar and dinner recept mark the 45th anniversari of bard , the us - israel binat agricultur research and develop fund . the seminar featur expert who discuss promis prospect on topic relat to numer aspect of agricultur research and develop . these includ the use of ai and iot in variou sphere of agricultur , includ smart farm , postharvest food loss , water secur , agro - energi , and photovolta . there wa gener recognit of the import of intern tie in promot sustain solut for agricultur challeng , and of interdisciplinari cooper . michael herzog , israel & rsquo ; s ambassador to the us , said : & ldquo ; the time ha come to recogn agricultur secur as an integr compon of nation secur . in the realm of food secur , we face mani challeng . no one countri can confront these challeng alon , and we must pool our scientif resourc to find solut . & ldquo ; the long - stand partnership between israel and the us is a crucial foundat for thi mission . & rdquo ; agricultur and rural develop minist avi dichter agre , say : & ldquo ; we are work on long - term plan . our polici is target food secur . we all know and understand that maintain and provid food secur is a necess that can not be neglect . we see our agricultur as one of the pillar that must be safeguard . & rdquo ; bard execut director prof . yoram kapulnik note : & ldquo ; today , both the us and israel are face mani similar challeng in agricultur practic . & ldquo ; our vision is to catalyz mission - orient research and collabor innov in agricultur , food , and nutrit , transform global futur food system with more sustain approach . we aim to do so by support innov agricultur research and train the next gener across a broad rang of agricultur , food , and nutrit - relat topic through our fellowship program . & ldquo ; we are also look into way we can acceler innov in agricultur by bring togeth academ leader and industri expert . & rdquo ; tel aviv univers celebr 115th anniversari & nbsp ; ■ tel aviv , the hill of spring , is celebr it 115th anniversari . tel aviv wa found dure passov in 1909 . in the jewish calendar , passov is one of four new year , and mark the begin of spring . also found in 1909 in jerusalem wa the legendari gymnasia rehavia , where former presid reuven rivlin and former minist dan meridor were mani year later among the student . offici open in april 1925 , the hebrew univers of jerusalem , which wa found in 1918 by weizmann and albert einstein , will celebr it centenari next year . rivlin and meridor are also alumni of the hebrew univers , where rivlin & rsquo ; s father wa a member of the faculti . coincident , meridor will celebr hi 77th birthday on april 25 , which thi year fall dure passov . also celebr a mileston anniversari next year is bar - ilan univers , which wa open in 1955 , after it initi in 1950 by the presid of the mizrachi movement in the us , pinkho churgin . tel aviv univers took somewhat longer to develop from an idea to a realiti . it wa initi promot in the 1930 by mayor meir dizengoff ; and after the establish of the state , anoth mayor , chaim levanon continu to push for it . eventu , it wa found in 1956 through the merger of the tel aviv school of law and econom , the institut of natur scienc , and the institut of jewish studi . event for singl in their 20 and 30 to be held at the jerusalem great synagogu ■ for mani new immigr who are singl , as well as student and volunt from zionist youth group spend a year or two in israel , festiv time such as passov and rosh hashanah can be veri sad and lone becaus these are the two festiv in which famili get togeth more than at ani other time . a sens of loneli and nostalgia is particularli bad in the case of young singl who are think about what they might be miss out on becaus they are not back in the old countri with famili and friend . awar of thi , steve eisenberg , a resid of miami , in conjunct with the jerusalem great synagogu and sever organ , ha organ a special event for singl in their 20 and 30 to be held at the great synagogu on saturday even , april 27 , with music , drink , and refresh . cost is the equival of $ 25 . particip is free for soldier who can prove that they are current serv . for reserv , eisenberg can be contact on whatsapp at 917 - 945 - 7342 . the stori of holocaust survivor avraham roet ■ the organ of the tel aviv intern salon are alreadi think ahead to holocaust remembr day on sunday may 5 , when a ceremoni will be held in english , and dutch - born holocaust survivor avraham roet , who also fought in the war of independ , will present hi amaz stori . he wa hidden dure the war by a dutch organ call right of the world . most of hi famili , includ two sister , did not surviv . in march 1946 , he arriv in what wa to becom the state of israel . he wa wound while fight in the war of independ , and for mani year dedic hi life to the right of holocaust survivor , retriev art loot by the nazi and get financi compens for holocaust survivor from the dutch govern and financi institut . the venu for the memori ceremoni is ichud shivat zion at 86 ben - yehuda street in tel aviv . isz host a wide varieti of religi , cultur , and social event that attract peopl from across the jewish spectrum , from total secular to ultra - orthodox . admiss to the ceremoni is free of charg . lior suchard attempt to win friend for israel ■ long befor the conflict in which israel is now embroil , it had an imag problem , and ha use mani strategi in an effort to overcom neg percept and attitud . even mentalist lior suchard is use hi unusu talent to win friend and influenc for israel . in an interview with riki rath that wa publish in makor rishon , he told of have risk popular with thi decis to serv israel & rsquo ; s interest , and though he may have succeed to some extent , he lost 20 , 000 follow . but thi doesn & rsquo ; t bother him , he said , becaus he doesn & rsquo ; t want peopl of that kind list as follow on hi social media account . it took him a while to realiz that there is no point in argu with anyon who is anti - israel , so what he did wa to explor variou pro - israel platform and studi the messag to determin what he should deliv on hi own social media account . sometim he feel that he & rsquo ; s knock hi head against a brick wall , but there are also success stori . he cite the case of kim kardashian & rsquo ; s mother who had post on her instagram account the desir for peac on all side . suchard got in touch with her and , in the most object manner that he could summon , explain the overal situat to her , result in her send a pro - israel post . if onli it wa that easi in more influenti quarter . reward femal reservist & nbsp ; ■ most isra appreci the sacrific be made by reservist , especi femal reservist who are the mother of young famili . some of these women did not wait to be call up but volunt and insist on serv . the snir associ , which support mani charit project , believ that such women are entitl to some form of reward , and in cooper with hairstylist ofir almog gave free hair treatment and style to femal reservist as a gift for the passov festiv . greerfc @ gmail . com