i like museum at night & ndash ; there is just someth about see the art after most peopl have gone home . & nbsp ; i had just gone to the first open at the israel museum after the coronaviru pandem had more or less calm down , and it wa so relax to walk through the empti corridor and look out the glass window at the valley of the cross . the exhibit wa a larg , realist paint call the bureaucrat by matan ben cnaan . it show a group of peopl in a field in israel look pleadingli at a man with a clipboard . the artist said he copi it & ndash ; the group , the face , the tens bodi languag & ndash ; from a photo of prison arriv on the platform at auschwitz . there wa a panel at the event , and they had an interest commentari about it . they seem to have thought a bit about the same idea the paint had rais for me : what would i have done if i had live dure the holocaust ? how would i have protect my son oren , who is in hi 20 and ha autism ? & nbsp ; the audienc listen intent as they [ the panel member ] spoke . it wa such a jerusalem even , with those old coupl i see at all kind of exhibit and event . i use to hate and envi them , especi when i would overhear them talk about their adult children who were finish the armi and go to medic school or open hi - tech busi and get marri and have children . i don & rsquo ; t hate them anymor . it & rsquo ; s harder to hate them when they & rsquo ; re wear corona mask . they look scare and creepi and childlik all at onc . but it & rsquo ; s not onli that . i don & rsquo ; t hate them anymor becaus thing are differ with oren now . & nbsp ; when the open wa over , i tri to head to the outdoor sculptur garden to wander for a few minut in the cool air , but it wa block off . oren use to like go to the museum and walk in that garden befor we slip into our routin of the zoo everi saturday afternoon . & nbsp ; the last time i rememb take him to the museum wa dure the summer he turn 18 , one of our hardest time . my mother , who had becom too dement to live on her own in new york , had move in with us . i couldn & rsquo ; t work as much as i had been becaus i wa take care of her part of the time , and to write at all , i had to hire someon to look after her & ndash ; in addit to the student i hire to help me take care of oren in the even , when he often had tantrum . & nbsp ; so my incom wa down , my expens were up , and my mother & rsquo ; s pension and save were stuck in america and i had no one to help me get them out . the custom servic employe on the phone line would hear the desper in my voic and put me in the automat scammer categori , deni me access to everi account she had . & nbsp ; my ex - husband had alway said he would help care for my mother when the time came , but now he wa long gone . my mother , angri that i had whisk her away from her belov new york , wa sit on the couch all day , critic me , as mother do . i had to do all my work and ani exercis in my bedroom . & nbsp ; we had just gone through a war with gaza that had includ missil fire at jerusalem . it had thrown oren & rsquo ; s school schedul out of whack ; now it wa the end of the summer and he wa home for 14 indescrib long day . when hi repetit question began to bother my mother , she would start yell at him . i could not leav them alon in the live room , even to go to the bathroom . he didn & rsquo ; t react right away but later in the day , he would have violent tantrum , usual when i told him it wa time for him to stop play on the comput . & nbsp ; but that wasn ' t the worst of itbut that wasn & rsquo ; t the worst of it . the worst of it wa that i had stop sleep . & nbsp ; all right , that & rsquo ; s an exagger . i slept a littl , but never more than four hour a night and usual much less . i had a sleep - pill prescript at one point , but my doctor said it wa too much , i need to stop , and he wouldn & rsquo ; t renew it . & nbsp ; he didn & rsquo ; t understand , though . my father had been bipolar , and i knew how it wa when someon stop sleep & ndash ; the sloppi and the crazi that came out . i could feel myself head that way . & nbsp ; the day we went to the israel museum back then , my mother wa home watch tenni with my younger son , ben . it wa okay to leav them togeth , and i hope my mother would never lose it with him the way she did with oren . ben wa affect by oren & rsquo ; s tantrum more than ani of us , i felt . oren wa my son ; as hi mother , i had sign on for thi , for better or wors . but ben had never ask for ani of thi , and as oren & rsquo ; s outburst had gotten wors , ben had gotten more and more withdrawn and rare came out of hi room . & nbsp ; oren and i walk through the sculptur garden that summer day and stop outsid the children & rsquo ; s wing . the guard are real tough ass there , and oren & rsquo ; s loud voic and jump would instantli get him thrown out of ani other part of the museum . he climb the structur outsid that kid were allow to climb , a kind of pyramid that he lower himself down into until onli hi long feet were visibl . be upsid down like that seem to calm him , and he wa quiet as we walk into the children & rsquo ; s wing , where a film about citi wa show , call die ira . the room where it wa play wa cool and empti , and we sat down . i had to googl die ira to find out that it mean & ldquo ; day of rage . & rdquo ; the film show rapidli shift cityscap , and oren and i were both transfix . & nbsp ; i had brought a book with me to read dure ani kid & rsquo ; movi we might see there . it cheer me even now to rememb that i wa actual read a book then . how could i ever have found the time and energi ? & nbsp ; but it wa the perfect book for me right then : the financi live of the poet by jess walter . it wa a novel about an unemploy journalist who made disastr real estat and career decis and briefli tri to deal weed to help him out of the mess he wa in , while cope with a cheat wife and a live - in , senil father . a differ stori from mine , but we share a few thing & ndash ; includ insomnia . & nbsp ; at one point in the stori , the hero read an articl about chronic insomnia which said that it caus & ldquo ; & lsquo ; a steep declin in neural activ which can eventu lead to sever hallucin , delirium , mania , even psychot break & ndash ; then death & ndash ; & rsquo ; then death ? wait . just like that ? shit ... a few day without sleep and you go from slur speech and bad decis to ... death ? well , that hardli seem fair . it feel like they left out a few step . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; i had seen the psychot break of my own father and i knew i wa slip , slip . god , i shouldn & rsquo ; t have been drive at that time . it & rsquo ; s funni that they can test your alcohol level but not the fact that you haven & rsquo ; t had a good night & rsquo ; s sleep in month . & ldquo ; empir state build , & rdquo ; said oren as an imag of new york flash on the screen . he had live in new york until he wa four and wa still crazi about the subway and big build , which he look at on youtub video . i had not been abl to bring him back for a visit in year , hi behavior be too errat , but hi love for the citi wa strong . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the chrysler build , & rdquo ; he ad a moment later . & nbsp ; a few month earlier , when my friend & rsquo ; kid in the us were graduat from high school and my isra friend & rsquo ; kid were join the armi , oren & rsquo ; s father and i had gone to famili court to becom hi legal guardian . that & rsquo ; s what you will eventu have to do when you have a special - need kid after he turn 18 . the school sent home the initi paperwork , and a govern repres came to the school to do back - to - back interview with parent and the kid & ndash ; just a formal . eventu , we had to go to the court build without oren and do some final paperwork . a few week later , the document show we were now hi guardian arriv in the mail . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; the statu of liberti , & rdquo ; oren said , and my mind reel with gratitud to the filmmak and curat & ndash ; that they had come up with someth that oren found absorb . & nbsp ; the day befor we visit the museum , the new york time had run a magazin stori on what they claim were the nearli 10 % of peopl diagnos with autism who & ldquo ; lose their diagnosi & rdquo ; and becom complet mainstream , usual as a result of a kind of behavior therapi that had left oren in wors shape than befor he start it . peopl kept email thi articl to me . & nbsp ; i have forgotten almost everyth about the die ira film , but it must have been a masterpiec becaus it made me forget about my mother and all of my other problem & ndash ; for as long as 20 second at a time . at the end of the film , a quot from the requiem mass appear on screen , and i scrawl it down on the back page of the financi live of the poet : rememb that i am the caus of your journey ; do not lose me on that day . the most relax place in israelw walk out of the children & rsquo ; s wing . oren ask to go home , but i couldn & rsquo ; t face the nightli routin yet , with all the possibl for tantrum and outburst from my mother , so i suggest walk a littl more in the sculptur garden and , to my surpris , he agre . & nbsp ; it can be the most relax place in israel . wherev you turn , there is anoth cluster of tree and anoth sculptur , and it seem as if you will never come to the end of it . we saw a small white entranc to a boxi structur . i assum it would be fill with the kind of heavi abstract modern sculptur that i don & rsquo ; t have patienc for . but we walk in anyway . & nbsp ; it wa a small white marbl room , ring with bench . there wa a squar open at the top , and when i look up at it , i wa blind by the glare of the sun high in the sky . oren walk across the empti space , sat down on the bench , and tilt hi head back . i follow and sat down next to him as he put hi feet on the bench and stretch out hi long leg . i glanc around to see if there wa a sign forbid thi & ndash ; we had been kick out of so mani other spot around the museum befor . but there wa noth . i follow hi gaze upward and saw that from the side we were on , the squar frame a perfectli blue piec of sky , dot with white wisp . thi descript doesn & rsquo ; t do justic to the puriti of the imag . it wa a brilliant exhibit , and there wa no way you could look at it without be entranc by the beauti of the sky . i glanc at oren lie there , so sweet and relax , and i stretch out myself , my head next to hi , look into that patch of blue & ndash ; and we drift off to sleep . & nbsp ; we were suddenli awaken by a larg and stern guard . i sat up instantli , feel startl but unusu rest . the problem wasn & rsquo ; t that we had our leg on the bench ; it wa that the museum wa close . & nbsp ; oren understood and wa readi to leav . & nbsp ; we walk slowli along the gravel path with the other straggler . & nbsp ; as i look at oren walk alongsid the reflect pool just outsid the exit , the sun glitter on the water and i saw that i had not lost him & ndash ; and that i would never lose him . & nbsp ; 