lebanon ' s hezbollah on friday said in a statement that it had target isra soldier `` with appropri weapon `` at the lebanon - isra border . it ad that it wa vigil and readi as a resumpt of fight between it palestinian alli hama and israel fuel concern that clash across the lebanes - isra border could also restart . rocket siren went off in sever town in northern israel near the lebanes border , send resid in the area run for shelter . the isra militari did not immedi give detail of what set them off . in their worst hostil sinc a 2006 war , the iran - back hezbollah and israel trade fire for week across the border after the hama - israel war erupt on oct . 7 . mirror the situat in the gaza strip , the hostil ceas last week when hama and israel agre a truce that expir on friday . '' in lebanon , we are concern in face thi challeng , be vigil , and alway readi to confront ani possibl and ani danger that may aris in our countri , '' hassan fadlallah , a senior hezbollah politician , said in broadcast remark . hezbollah claim to be victim of ' zionist target ' '' no one think that lebanon ha been spare from thi zionist target or that what is happen in gaza can not affect the situat in lebanon , '' he said . hezbollah , part of an iran - back allianc includ hama , mount near daili rocket attack on isra posit at the frontier while israel wage air and artilleri strike in south lebanon dure the hostil that began on oct . 8 . lebanon - base terrorist from hama and the palestinian group islam jihad have also mount attack from lebanes territori . about 100 peopl in lebanon have been kill dure the hostil , 80 of them hezbollah terrorist . ten of thousand of peopl have fled their home on both side of the border . '' i am worri about the resumpt of confront here in lebanon . hezbollah ha link what happen at the border with what happen in gaza , '' said nabil boumonsef , deputi editor - in - chief of lebanon ' s annahar newspap . '' all the while the war in gaza continu lebanon will remain threaten by the danger of a major escal . ''