a rang of move by the govern have led to the seizur of ni 103 million of hama terror fund , nation bureau for counter terror financ of israel offici sagi volkovitz said at a govern confer on tuesday . hi agenc is part of the defens ministri . volkovitz gave complex exampl of group that would sell or deliv good to hama in gaza to get around bank regul , while a seemingli disconnect hama offic in a foreign countri would pay for someth in return that regul would be hard - press to make a connect with . the confer primarili highlight the 20th anniversari and work of the israel money launder and terror financ prohibit author ( impa ) head by shlomit wagman , but it also featur offici from other agenc , includ the polic , the prosecut and the court . wagman said the impa work with the polic , the prosecut , tax agenc , but also & ldquo ; with the mossad , the shin bet [ israel secur agenc ] and other agenc in way that i can not specifi , & rdquo ; to combat terrorist financ and money - launder . she said the impa help intellig agenc and law enforc to be abl to arriv at declar certain group as terrorist organ by help them connect israel & rsquo ; s adversari & rsquo ; complex scheme and financi dot . & ldquo ; our join the fatf [ financi action task forc ] wa note as a difficulti for iran , & rsquo ; & rsquo ; as the islam republ ha tri , and fail to date , to get it name off the fatf global agenc econom blacklist , she said . the fatf is a global money - launder and terror - financ watchdog . she prais the countri & rsquo ; s new econom crime - focus court for their special expertis in money - launder and terror - financ case so that the govern can seiz illeg fund faster , where sometim & ldquo ; there are billion at stake . & rdquo ; tel aviv district court judg and head of the special econom crime court khale kabuv said the move to establish these special focus court start around three year ago after he and other judg were expos at variou confer to the level of complex in the field . after he repeatedli heard and wa shown that the special legal and factual expertis need to handl terror - financ , money - launder and legal disput over new kind of digit currenc wa far beyond the judg & rsquo ; current capac , he help push to establish court root in that expertis . he said that with special train judg , case that onc could take more than a decad due to their complex and the judg & rsquo ; s lack of familiar with the intric issu involv , now could be resolv in onli two to three year . kabuv said there were heat debat about establish court and judg focus in these area , and also about whether there should be separ unit to deal with money - launder and digit issu versu corpor and secur legal disput . in the end though , kabuv said he help convinc key decis - maker that one econom - focus court unit wa the right way to go . he ad that they had made a lot of progress and that in a few more year , the vision would be fulli realiz . speak by video , fatf presid dr . marcu pleyer said , & ldquo ; money launder pose a threat not onli to our financi system , but also to the rule of law . & rdquo ; he emphas the fatf & rsquo ; s new focu to combat the , & ldquo ; financ of extrem right - wing terror , & rdquo ; someth that ha sometim been overlook in the past . global , he said there is $ 260 billion in illeg financi transact take place to facilit the same violent crimin organ that distribut drug and caus other problem . pleyer warn that & ldquo ; mani countri have not implement law effect , & rdquo ; even if they have solid law for combat illeg transact on the book . he said more countri will need to start look underneath trust and other complex financi mechan use to conceal the real owner of certain illeg fund , includ learn more about foreign compani . justic minist gideon sa & rsquo ; ar credit the impa with help turn the tide in the battl to reduc intern violenc within the isra - arab sector . also on tuesday , the impa publish a report note that the volum of cyberattack against israel in 2021 had jump seven time as compar to 2020 . the report highlight the larg number of ransomwar attack where iran wa the true sponsor onc the impa pierc the veil of third parti front the attack . further , the report went into extens detail to deconstruct pattern and crimin probe that help identifi iranian involv as the mastermind pull the string . in term of the impact , the report said that 42 % of larg isra busi have experienc cyberattack . some 91 % of those harm by cyberattack never report the harm to the author and around 80 % of those busi that paid the ransomwar demand of them end up face repeat attack afterward .