the tragic death of veteran al jazeera report shireen abu akleh in jenin on wednesday morn came as palestinian author prime minist mohammad shtayyeh wa visit brussel , where he attend a meet of the ad hoc liaison committe , a bodi whose primari function is to coordin the deliveri of intern aid to the palestinian . establish in 1993 , the ahlc ha been meet at least twice a year under the chairmanship of norway . thi year & rsquo ; s meet came amid report that some of the western donor countri were refus to provid addit financi aid to the pa unless it implement major reform , especi in the field of educ . the propos reform basic call for chang in the palestinian school textbook , which are written by pa profession whose salari are directli fund by the european union . shtayyeh went to the meet with the hope of convinc the donor that the pa wa seriou about implement larg - scale reform not onli in the educ sector , but in other field , too . and as in previou meet , shtayyeh use the platform to launch a scath attack on israel , accus it of engag in a & ldquo ; systemat destruct of the two - state solut by allow settler to invad the aqsa mosqu , prevent palestinian from enter jerusalem , in addit to field execut and arrest . & rdquo ; refer to the sever financi crisi in the pa , the pa premier said that the palestinian have start recov from the coronaviru pandem crisi , and that the gross domest product rose about 7 % in 2021 . & ldquo ; the palestinian economi suffer from a defect in it structur , & rdquo ; shtayyeh told the donor . & ldquo ; it is a besieg economi that doe not control it resourc or capabl , and it exist in an except situat impos by the realiti of the occup and it procedur . & rdquo ; he reveal that the rate of unemploy decreas in the last quarter of 2021 to 13 % , after have reach 18 % in 2019 . thi , shtayyeh said , wa due to new job opportun in the west bank and work in israel . a report submit to the ahlc by the quartet , which consist of the us , eu , unit nation and russia , note that the pa continu to face a dire financi situat result from diminish econom growth , a mark declin in donor fund and isra deduct from clearanc revenu ( in respons to payment made by the pa to famili of palestinian involv in terrorist attack against isra ) . in 2021 , the pa & rsquo ; s deficit reach $ 757 million & ndash ; approxim 4 . 4 % of gdp & ndash ; despit gdp growth of 6 % , an increas in gross local revenu of $ 1 . 5 billion and a decreas in govern expenditur . dure the same year , deduct by israel from clearanc revenu reach $ 282m . , repres 37 % of the budgetari deficit . & ldquo ; project for 2022 by the pa portray a similarli grim fiscal situat , & rdquo ; accord to the quartet report . & ldquo ; despit project 3 % growth in gdp and 8 % in gross revenu , the pa & rsquo ; s fiscal deficit is expect to reach $ 558m . address that gap will requir structur chang , intern fiscal reform , improv econom growth , and the resolut of a number of long - discuss but still outstand isra - palestinian fiscal file . & rdquo ; shtayyeh present to the donor a plan that includ 21 step for reform relat to administr , financi , secur , social and econom issu . & ldquo ; whatev reform we make , they alon are not suffici to address the imbal in the palestinian econom structur , becaus it is under occup , & rdquo ; he argu . & ldquo ; therefor , israel must take measur on it part , and the support of donor countri must continu to enabl us to continu fulfil our oblig . & rdquo ; shtayyeh did not refer to the issu of anti - israel incit . but the plan he present to the donor countri argu that , as part of the reform process , the pa will work toward promot and protect the palestinian nation narr and cultur . & ldquo ; inform about palestin is be deliber distort by the isra occupi author , and , as part of thi process , palestinian folklor , heritag and archaeolog artifact are be stolen , & rdquo ; the plan state . & ldquo ; a battl is be wage over the narr domin the conflict . it is import that our nation cultur , ground on the palestinian ident , should be consolid and protect . & rdquo ; the new of abu akleh & rsquo ; s death came as shtayyeh wa meet with roberta metsola , presid of the european parliament , and other eu offici on the sidelin of the ahlc meet . the widespread condemn of the incid have sinc been use by shtayyeh and other palestinian offici to garner addit support for the palestinian & rsquo ; case , promot the palestinian narr , and shift the blame onto israel . the ultim goal : to ramp up the narr accord to which the palestinian are the & ldquo ; victim of the isra occup . & rdquo ; in a statement from brussel , shtayyeh wrote that & ldquo ; shireen wa kill by the isra occup while document their horrif crime against our peopl . & rdquo ; he later urg the senior eu offici to pressur israel & ldquo ; to stop all it unilater measur and violat against our peopl and to allow the hold of elect in occupi jerusalem . & rdquo ; it & rsquo ; s not clear at thi stage whether shtayyeh wa success in persuad the donor countri to resum or increas their financi aid to the palestinian . the kill of abu akleh may significantli contribut to the palestinian & rsquo ; diplomat and media warfar against israel , but it will not necessarili bring more money into the coffer of the pa . the european and other western donor have , at least in the past few year , been exert heavi pressur on the pa to end the incit and tone down it rhetor against israel . for now , it & rsquo ; s evid that the pressur ha proven to be ineffect . in fact , it seem that matter have been go in the opposit direct . the voic and messag eman from ramallah and the hama - rule gaza strip have becom even more toxic , as evidenc befor and dure ramadan . alleg that jewish settler are & ldquo ; storm & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; desecr & rdquo ; the aqsa mosqu dure their tour of the templ mount are sound almost everi day in the west bank and gaza strip . senior pa and hama offici don & rsquo ; t miss an opportun to accus israel of plan to & ldquo ; commit crime & rdquo ; against one of islam & rsquo ; s holiest site , jerusalem , and the palestinian peopl . against thi backdrop , terrorist attack were carri out in beersheba , bnei brak , tel aviv , elad and jerusalem . the attack , which result in the death of 19 peopl , are said to be connect , directli and indirectli , to the tension at the templ mount and jerusalem . yet , just as the tension and violenc appear to be fade away , the incid involv the popular al jazeera journalist took israel and the palestinian back to squar one . the pa , hama and other palestinian faction and parti are now use the tragedi to further whip up anti - israel sentiment among the palestinian . the protest against the kill of abu akleh are like to continu in the come day and week . the protest , which coincid with the first anniversari of the israel - hama war , could escal dure the palestinian & rsquo ; annual commemor of nakba day on may 15 in protest against the establish of israel . the pa is now hope to turn the tragedi of the report into a new version of the incid involv moham al - durrah , the 12 - year - old boy who wa kill in the gaza strip in 2000 after be caught in a crossfir between the idf and palestinian secur forc . the main goal is to increas the intern pressur on israel to halt all it practic in jerusalem and the west bank , includ construct in the settlement and secur measur at the templ mount . the pa & rsquo ; s effort are direct mainli toward the us and the eu . pa presid mahmoud abba want the biden administr to & ldquo ; end it silenc & rdquo ; and increas it involv in the isra - palestinian conflict . he want the biden administr to exert crush pressur on the isra govern to stop all idf & ldquo ; incurs & rdquo ; into palestinian citi and villag . he also want the biden administr to fulfil all it promis to the palestinian , especi the commit to the reopen of the us consul in jerusalem . on the other hand , abba and hi offici want the eu and other western donor to uncondit resum their financi aid to the pa . meanwhil , there & rsquo ; s grow concern in ramallah over the rise influenc and popular of hama and palestinian islam jihad in the west bank . while it & rsquo ; s true that the idf crackdown on hama and pij member serv the interest of abba , it nevertheless underscor the weak and alleg collabor of the pa with israel . each idf oper and each kill of a palestinian further erod the palestinian public & rsquo ; s confid in abba and the pa . for now , all eye in ramallah are set on the upcom visit of biden to the region . the pa is hope that biden will carri with him a number of gift for the palestinian . the talk about the possibl that the us presid may visit a hospit in east jerusalem without the presenc of isra secur offic ha alreadi sent a posit messag to the pa & ndash ; name , that the us consid east jerusalem as the capit of a futur palestinian state . but the pa know that a visit to a hospit carri more symbol than substanc , which is whi abba ha made it clear that he expect the biden administr to & ldquo ; translat it word into deed & rdquo ; and fulfil all it promis to the palestinian without delay . abba & rsquo ; s main messag to the american and european is : submit to my demand , or the palestinian author will collaps , and you will have a hama takeov of the west bank .