pressur is mount on the larg pro - iran regim mayor of the german citi of freiburg , martin horn , to dissolv hi municip partnership with the heavili militar citi of isfahan in iran that last week play a key role in the islam republ & rsquo ; s massiv aerial bombard of the jewish state . some iranian in isfahan celebr the aerial bombard target israel last week . call for horn to end the twin citi partnership grew after iran & rsquo ; s regim fire over 300 missil and suicid drone at israel . isfahan is the main hub of iran & rsquo ; s missil product program and it illicit nuclear weapon apparatu . lieuten colonel ( retir ) jonathan conricu , who serv as the isra armi ' s intern spokesperson from 2017 to 2023 , told the jerusalem post : `` i find it odd that a citi still ha a connect to an offici institut from the islam republ of iran . end the partnership would send a messag to the hostil iranian regim that thi citi , like all german citi , adher to german valu . '' dr . efraim zuroff , the world & rsquo ; s lead nazi - hunter and head of the simon wiesenth center & rsquo ; s jerusalem offic , told the post that the twin citi partnership & ldquo ; make freiburg look a bunch of total idiot . & rdquo ; he said that & ldquo ; to have a twin citi agreement with a citi in iran doe not make ani sens . it encourag iran to continu to do what they are do & mdash ; spread death and destruct . & rdquo ; zuroff stress that & ldquo ; freiburg is not in line with the gener attitud in germani . & rdquo ; address the iranian peopleben sabti , who led the idf spokesperson & rsquo ; s platform in persian , which wa creat to address the iranian peopl directli , told the post that & ldquo ; iranian drone were sent from isfahan & rdquo ; to attack israel . sabti , who wa born in tehran and is research fellow for institut for nation secur studi , ad that in isfahan & ldquo ; there are mani militari base & rdquo ; in & nbsp ; isfahan & nbsp ; becaus it is in the heart & nbsp ; of ian and it is & ldquo ; veri secur & rdquo ; for iran to place militari instal in the central provinc of isfahan . israel , accord to foreign media report , on friday launch a counter - strike against an air base in isfahan and hit a key part of iran ' s s - 300 air defens system . the new york time report on saturday . freiburg is wide consid one of the most hospit european citi for iran & rsquo ; s regim , which wa classifi as the world & rsquo ; s largest state - sponsor of terror by the biden administr . zuroff note that isfahan is the & ldquo ; center of nuclear weapon product & rdquo ; in iran . the campaign to end the report appeas of iran & rsquo ; s regim by freiburg & rsquo ; s mayor , martin horn , and the left - wing green and social democrat parti in the citi council ha been larg led by iranian dissid . dr . kazem moussavi , a german - iranian dissid who ha campaign against the partnership sinc it wa found in 2000 , told the post & ldquo ; as an iranian opposit activist and spokesman for the green parti of iran in germani ( in exil ) , i have been warn freiburg ' s respect mayor , now martin horn , and the citi council for year , in vain , that freiburg ' s relat with isfahan are danger and a back door for the mullah to spread their antisemit and islam in baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg and in all of germani . & rdquo ; freiburg is a univers town locat in the southwestern german state of baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg . moussavi continu that & ldquo ; howev , they paid no attent to my protest and report in the context of appeas polici . they ignor that isfahan is an execut center for oppon of the regim , the main base for uranium enrich to produc nuclear bomb , ballist missil and drone , and to equip the war against israel . it ha now been proven that the revolutionari guard from isfahan fire ballist missil at israel . if these rocket had hit isra citi , it would have been an even more terribl crime than the hama octob pogrom , for which the citi of freiburg would also be moral respons . & rdquo ; the well - known german - iranian activist ad & ldquo ; if mayor martin horn and the freiburg citi councilor had reflect on these danger and israel ' s attack on militari instal in isfahan , they would have to resign immedi and break off freiburg ' s relat with the citi of isfahan . thi sister citi partnership endang israel ' s secur . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; sheina vojoudi , who is an associ fellow at the gold institut for intern strategi , told the post , & ldquo ; isfahan is of great strateg import in iran . there are militari and nuclear base in isfahan and it show how the regim is concentr in thi citi and the rocket that were fire at israel were also fire from one of the base in isfahan . today ' s attack on isfahan mean that thi citi is one of the main point where the regim can pose a threat to israel and of cours to the iranian peopl becaus of the intens activ of the irgc . & rdquo ; voujoudi , who fled the islam republ to germani , ad & ldquo ; the regim ' s nuclear activ have almost ruin the live of the peopl of isfahan and increas the rate of cancer in isfahan . everi nuclear activ of thi regim , which is base on danger and deadli ideolog , is a warn sign for the whole world . after the rocket attack on israel from isfahan , it ' s time for freiburg to end it town twin with isfahan , and jewish commun in germani can play a key role in end thi partnership . & rdquo ; freiburg & rsquo ; s mayor and citi govern and it tini jewish commun run by the controversi chairwoman , irina katz , declin to condemn isfahan & rsquo ; s call to erad israel in april . at a april demonstr held on al - qud day in isfahan , the last friday of ramadan , the imam of isfahan , ayatollah yousef tabatabainejad , declar , & rdquo ; it is our oblig to support the oppress muslim who have been oppress and we hope that , with divin provid in thi path of resist , we will be abl to wipe the zionist regim off the face of the earth . & rdquo ; katz took to the street last year to protest prime minist & rsquo ; s benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s hotli debat effort to reform the judici system . she ha not call for the end of the freiburg - isfahan partnership . the german state of baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg , where freiburg is locat , ha enabl iran & rsquo ; s chemic missil weapon program . in 2018 , the post report the compani krempel , locat in baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg , sold technolog to iranian regim businessmen that wa later use in the product of chemic rocket that result in a syrian regim ga attack on civilian . the chemic missil attack result in 21 injuri , includ mani children . it is unclear if the krempel technolog wa use in iranian missil fire at israel . & nbsp ; the green parti governor of baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg , winfri kretschmann , ha permit a flourish trade relationship to exist between iran & rsquo ; s regim and german bank and engin compani in hi state . the post previous & nbsp ; report on kretschmann & rsquo ; s financi support in the amount of $ 32 , 000 for an antisemit palestinian christian pastor who support bd . the wiesenth center & rsquo ; s rabbi abraham cooper ha urg civil societi group like the german - israel friendship societi in stuttgart ( dig - stuttgart ) to call for the end of the partnership between isfahan and freiburg . after week of mount pressur on the dig - stuttgart , the group sent an email to the post on friday call for the termin of the partnership . when ask if the dig - stuttgart will urg mayor frank nopper of stuttgart , the capit of baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg , to delet inform for the pro - hama group palestin stuttgart committe on the citi websit , oliv vrankov , the chairman of the dig - stuttgart , refus to comment . the ngo palestin stuttgart committe ha rais fund for the israel - design terrorist organ samidoun , which ha an offic in iran . germani classifi samidoun a terrorist entiti after the octob 7 massacr . & nbsp ; susan kaufmann , a spokeswoman for stuttgart ' s mayor , told the post that & rdquo ; the state capit stuttgart ha reinstat the address of the palestin committe stuttgart on the citi ' s homepag in consider of the legal posit repres by the stuttgart administr court . & rdquo ; german legal expert and pro - israel advoc argu that nopper is not seriou about stop the financ of hama and samidoun becaus he could delet all ngo entri on the citi & rsquo ; s websit to ensur there is no financ of palestinian terror . when ask if nopper would delet all ngo entri on the citi & rsquo ; s websit , kaufmann refus to comment . when ask if the dig - stuttgart will urg the stuttgart - base bank lbbw to close the account of palestin stuttgart committe , vrankov declin to comment . the dig - stuttgart and it nation organ dig are financ by the german foreign ministri . it is unclear whi dig - stuttgart retain a dovish postur toward the financ and support of hama and samidoun by & nbsp ; stuttgart and the state of baden - w & uuml ; rttemberg . stuttgart and the state govern reportedli own nearli 50 % of the lbbw bank . & nbsp ; the lbbw bank is oppos the trend in germani to counter alleg financ of pro - palestinian terrorist organ , in which bank have close account of pro - hama group . last month , the berlin sparkass bank suspend the account of the far - left and pro - hama group & ldquo ; jewish voic for a just peac in the middl east & rdquo ; becaus of alleg tie with palestinian terrorist and extremist . in 2019 , after a seri of post investig report on the bank account of the pro - bd group & ldquo ; jewish voic for a just peac in the middl east , & rdquo ; the german bank for social economi in cologn & nbsp ; close the organ & rsquo ; s account . in decemb , the post report yesh atid head mk yair lapid demand german author disrupt and end hama fund stream in germani . lapid told german news organ die welt & rsquo ; s tv program that & ldquo ; there are peopl in germani who have bank account , there are peopl who perhap also person support hama activist . and they are work on transfer money to hama . & rdquo ; mayor horn and the green and social democrat parti in freiburg & rsquo ; s citi council refus to answer numer post press queri . all of the major parti in the citi council ( with the except of the tini pro - israel jupi parti ) and mayor horn have remain wed to the partnership with isfahan . in 2021 , the post broke the stori that the univers of freiburg stop it cooper agreement with isfahan univers . the citi of freiburg ha been embroil in numer pro - iran regim scandal . freiburg roll out the red carpet for mohammad khatami in 208 , who serv as iran ' s presid from 1997 to 2005 , and prais the late french holocaust denier roger garaudi . saeed laylaz , former advisor to presid khatami , recent said that & ldquo ; if israel or the us respond to the islam republ & rsquo ; s attack , the islam republ will test it first nuclear bomb , & ldquo ; accord to iran intern . the new york - base anti - defam leagu ( adl ) wrote in 2016 & ldquo ; the islam associ of the univers of isfahan ha announc that it will hold it own holocaust cartoon contest . the islam associ held a similar contest in 2015 . in announc thi year & rsquo ; s contest , the islam associ explain that it goal is to demonstr sympathi with oppress palestinian and show hatr toward the zionist regim and & lsquo ; the child killer israel . & rsquo ; the organ claim the contest is & lsquo ; not anti - semit , & rsquo ; but rather an effort to question such a disgrac and fals phenomenon & ndash ; the holocaust - someth which no one in the western world dare to do . & rdquo ;