there are a lot of charact & ndash ; and a lot of question & ndash ; introduc in the earli part of the new seri the 11th bodi from keshet 12 , the first episod of which premier on monday after the news and the second air on wednesday . but if you concentr on maggi azerz & rsquo ; s lead perform as iri , a troubl polic detect , you can enjoy her work and trust that eventu you & rsquo ; ll absorb all the detail of what & rsquo ; s go on . iri is a divorc mother in haifa . her ex is have her investig for faulti parent , her father ( gavri banai ) is senil and is about to be kick out of hi assist live facil becaus he requir too much assist , and her sometim lover ( hisham suliman ) can & rsquo ; t commit to her for reason she understand but isn & rsquo ; t happi about . & nbsp ; she doesn & rsquo ; t have too mani friend at the polic station where she work , becaus she rais complaint about other cop & rsquo ; excess violenc . crime famili of variou ethnic are hover in the background of her profession life & ndash ; and sometim the foreground . one morn , she ha to investig a strang call from the medic faculti at the technion : the anatomi class ha found an extra bodi , and no one know where it came from . while her colleagu tri to dismiss the deceas john doe , her investig & rsquo ; s skill kick into gear and she vow to get to the bottom of it . azerz is so tough as the put - upon iri that while she isn & rsquo ; t easi to like , you admir her and root for her . one footnot to the show is that , as far as i know , thi is the first drama to show how wild boar have overrun part of haifa & ndash ; and as they pass by , a charact quip : & ldquo ; new neighbor ? & rdquo ; if you & rsquo ; d rather watch a detect stori in english , tri the long goodby on amazon & rsquo ; s prime video and appl tv + , which brought togeth three great talent who creat one of the best , most offbeat detect film of all time : raymond chandler , whose novel of the same name is the basi for the movi ; robert altman , who adapt and direct the film ; and elliott gould , who star in it . altman figur out that chandler wa made to be updat for the post - vietnam era ( the book wa publish in 1953 ) , and that gould wa born to play the cynic but romant detect - fiction hero , philip marlow . the movi ha a sprawl plot that mix the glare daylight of lo angel with it dark shadow , and it involv marlow tri to help hi friend terri ( jim bouton ) , who ha been accus of kill hi wife , and then veer off into a stori about an ernest hemingway - type writer ( sterl hayden ) , who ha disappear , and hi distress wife ( nina van pallandt ) , who is tri to find him . the cast featur a number of peopl who were known and / or notori off screen , notabl bouton , an ex - basebal player who wrote a tell - all book , and van pallandt , who becam famou as the mistress of the howard hugh biographi hoaxer clifford irv . & nbsp ; mark rydel is best known as a director , and he play a mobster mix up in all of thi , who is rather creepili portray as an observ jew , and who commit the movi & rsquo ; s most shock act of violenc and get to utter the most memor line afterward . & nbsp ; but you don & rsquo ; t have to know ani of thi backstori to enjoy gould & rsquo ; s awkward charm and wisecrack . the movi & rsquo ; s open featur one of the funniest scene ever film involv a cat & ndash ; and it reveal a lot about marlow & rsquo ; s charact , too . after those first few minut , you know him better than you know most movi hero after an hour . netflix ' s ' mother of the bride ' netflix & rsquo ; s mother of the bride , which star brook shield , is a ( veri ) water - down version of mamma mia ! & ndash ; with all the element that made that movi so success , becaus it play into a child & rsquo ; s fantasi of their estrang parent get back togeth . like mamma mia ! , ticket to paradis , and so mani other movi , it featur a young coupl hold a hastili arrang destin wed & ndash ; in thi case , it & rsquo ; s in thailand & ndash ; that throw two exe among the coupl & rsquo ; s parent togeth . you could set your watch by the predict plot develop , but you & rsquo ; ll like watch it to the end if you start it , becaus it & rsquo ; s an effici construct entertain machin , like a pop tune you can & rsquo ; t get out of your head even if it annoy you . mother of the bride star a lot of actor who , like shield , were a - lister a while ago and haven & rsquo ; t been on screen that much late . there is an air of palpabl gratitud among the cast at find themselv back on camera . & nbsp ; shield , who , it turn out , had a flair for comedi that she demonstr in the suddenli susan seri over 20 year ago , play & ldquo ; world - renown geneticist & rdquo ; lana , a widow control freak workahol whose daughter , emma ( miranda cosgrov , best known for the seri icarli ) , decid to marri at a beach resort after her boyfriend , rj ( sean teal ) , suddenli propos . it turn out that rj & rsquo ; s father , will ( benjamin bratt , who play one of the polic detect on the earli iter of law & amp ; order ) , wa the great love of lana & rsquo ; s life and he dump her after colleg without a word . did you guess that he is now a billionair ventur capitalist ? so , by now , you have like either start stream the movi or stop read thi , but if you need to know more , michael mcdonald play lana & rsquo ; s wisecrack gay best friend , rachael harri is her wisecrack straight best friend , and chad michael murray play the instantli smitten doctor who briefli challeng will for lana & rsquo ; s affect . murray wa memor in the role of jake , the teen dream in freaki friday who fall for jami lee curti when her daughter take over her bodi ( you can stream that movi on disney + or appl tv + ) . the tini amount of new content in thi old stori is about emma surrend control of her wed to a mean wed planner in order to win & ldquo ; like & rdquo ; on instagram & ndash ; and i won & rsquo ; t be spoil anyth to reveal that emma eventu learn the valu of spend time with famili and trust her own tast . & nbsp ; there is a scene where a coupl fall into a pool and everyon jump in after them , anoth where the exe get strand in a picturesqu locat , and a credit sequenc where the cast perform a danc to a pop tune . if shield wasn & rsquo ; t so likabl , it wouldn & rsquo ; t work , but somehow it doe .