there wa someth about the stori of the murder of a mother and two daughter dure the passov holiday last year that imprint itself on the conscious of the nation and catapult rabbi leo dee , the griev husband and father , to intern promin . on april 7 , 2023 , luci dee and her daughter maia , 20 , and rina , 15 , were drive to tiberia over hol hamo , the intermedi day of the week - long festiv . their vehicl wa ram off the road by terrorist gunmen , who shot all three women . maia and rina were kill on the scene , and luci pass away from her wound two day later . in a privat ceremoni exactli one year later , rabbi leo dee and hi daughter keren and tali and son yehuda ( now 19 , 18 and 15 year old ) dedic a new social hall in their commun of efrat in luci ’ s memori . later that even , a stand - room - onli crowd of 700 , plu 2 , 400 who watch the ceremoni onlin , gather in the newli dedic shirat luci ( luci ’ s song ) hall abov the mishkan tziporah synagogu in efrat to rememb the three women and to draw inspir from their live . rabbi leo dee speaksaft thank the attende for “ the abund of love , help , posit wish , and kind from everyon thi year , ” rabbi dee call these collect act of kind “ our greatest nechama [ comfort ] . ” in hi talk , rabbi dee highlight what he identifi as “ some of the thousand of project that have been set off dure thi year in their memori by friend , famili , and peopl we have never met befor ! ” he spoke about the torah scroll written in luci ’ s memori , “ with everi one of the 300 , 000 letter written by differ schoolchildren , soldier , and other from around the world … . thi sefer torah is the essenc of luci ’ s quest to get everi jew to feel part of our greater stori and to shine their light in the world . ” in a wide public follow - up stori to the murder , seven peopl receiv one of luci ’ s organ . in the audienc that night wa rina lital , the recipi of luci dee ’ s heart . while relat all the way that rina ’ s life ha begun to mirror luci ’ s sinc the transplant , rabbi dee said , “ the head of organ donat at beilinson [ hospit , rabin medic center , petah tikvah ] recent announc on nation radio that the 30 % increas in organ donor in israel is directli connect to luci ’ s stori . ” continu the theme of save live , rabbi dee said that “ group of extrem gener swiss and american donor , who had never met ani of us , dedic a number of ambul in [ luci ’ s ] memori and in the memori of rina and maia . they have save numer live sinc then . ” dress in match white t - shirt , the student and faculti of efrat ’ s orot yehuda , where luci wa a much - love english teacher , record a haunt video of song of encourag and faith dedic to luci ’ s memori . the five - minut video garner more than 43 , 000 view in it first four day . in maia ’ s memori , ten of thousand of jew around the world are learn and discuss a teach from pirkei avot ( ethic of the father ) at their shabbat tabl each week . the project start 18 month ago , when the dee host two of maia ’ s friend from london . on that shabbat , they learn one mishna from pirkei avot at each meal . in maia ’ s memori , those friend expand the project to the extent that rabbi dee comment , “ i can not travel anywher today without peopl come up to me and say , ‘ i am learn your pirkei avot . ’ ” he also talk about a project that maia initi dure her nation servic in a high school in yeroham . she provid snack to encourag girl to studi the weekli torah portion dure their morn break . maia name the project “ nish nosh parsh ” and , accord to rabbi dee , the project “ ha now been roll out to hundr of ulpanot across israel in her memori . ” rabbi dee share that rina ’ s friendli and adventur natur ha been memori in “ a trip to masada for hundr of teen from around the countri befor pesach . they are plan to build a spring for [ rina ] in hamra over the summer . “ rina , if there wa a girl in your year feel lone , you were the one with your arm around her , and you were the one who would start a new ball game to includ her , ” her father said . “ to rememb your kind , your friend have built a special space in the school at kiryat arba to bring everyon togeth dure break time and for mincha [ afternoon prayer ] ( which you inspir everyon to daven ) , and they have dedic a new chug of basketbal , to which everyon is invit and will keep everyon fit . ” futur plan includ a new youth hous for ezra in the tamar neighborhood of efrat in memori of rina , who wa instrument in help to establish the tamar branch . speak directli to hi wife and daughter , dee conclud hi summari of memori project with the word , “ luci , maia , and rina – you will never be forgotten . everyth i am do is dedic to one of you , and so mani project continu in your merit . ” the rabbi pepper hi even ’ s talk with the question , “ mi kamocha , yisrael ? ” ( who is like you , israel ? ) , highlight the mani way that he ha been inspir by the jewish peopl ’ s respons to hi famili ’ s tragedi . he conclud with seven lesson he ha drawn from the past year . these were hi exact word : there ’ s no benefit to be sad . i believ that the purpos of mourn is to get to a point where you can rememb your love one with a smile ; otherwis , we ’ ll never want to think about them at all . the challeng is figur out how to do it . with the help of all these project and more , am yisrael [ the nation of israel ] ha been the greatest help . there ’ s noth like the jewish peopl . from the shiva [ week - long mourn period ] onward , we have felt that we did not lose three member of our famili of seven , but three from our famili of 14 million . tzaddikim [ righteou peopl ] live forev : they never die . rashaim [ evil peopl ] never live , even when they are aliv . thi also appli to nation . the jewish peopl from all past gener are still live through their contribut to our live today . our enemi have contribut noth but destruct and are forgett even while they live . i ’ m grate for the 30 year i knew luci , the 20 year i knew maia , and the 15 year i knew rina . your impact on thi world is immeasur . what you have achiev in half a lifetim , or quarter of a lifetim , is more than most of us could achiev in 10 lifetim . it ’ s a challeng to alway think of the good time , but that ’ s what ’ s need . the best treatment for destruct is to build . the first mitzvah of the shulchan aruch [ code of jewish law ] is to jump out of bed in the morn like a lion . thi mean : you must have someth to jump out of bed for . everi jew must have at least one passion he or she is work on at ani time , and that ’ s what get you up in the morn . if you are struggl to get out of bed , find your passion . friday morn , plant fruit tree in efrat wa fulfil the biblic mitzvah of yishuv ha ’ aretz , settl the land . we will continu to build , we will continu to plant . there ’ s no youth like our jewish youth . they have get up and go , they build , they invent , and they are the bravest gener in our histori . i am proud of everi one of them . they are the or le ’ goyim [ light unto the nation ] . at the shiva , some 17 - year - old boy from the commun ask if they could build a viewpoint [ lookout ] in efrat in memori of the girl , and i appar agre . nine month later , they show me what they had achiev – and the mitzpeh hadegel [ flag outlook ] would be a victori for a profession landscap compani , let alon a group of 17 - year - old boy who rais the fund themselv and taught themselv how to build pergola and plant tree from youtub video . final , i learn that what matter is not my emunah in hashem , my faith in god , but rather hashem ’ s faith in me . everi morn i say “ modeh ani … rabah emunatecha ” thank you , hashem , for your faith in me . we can appreci the infinit miracl in our live – the friend , the famili , am yisrael , eretz yisrael [ the land of israel ] – but if hashem agre for us to wake up thi morn , he ha a purpos for us . our job is not to question him but to find that purpos . today there are hundr of thousand of jew in israel fight for our peopl and for freedom in the world – fulfil their purpos , and million of other are support them . the daughter speakgath togeth for strength and support , the three remain dee children ascend the platform , where both daughter spoke about their mother and sister . at the even event , keren and tali , who are fulli bilingu , spoke in hebrew ; at the memori ceremoni at the cemeteri in kfar etzion the next morn , they deliv their comment in english . keren reveal the truth about live post - trauma by contrast her daili realiti with what she describ as “ the beauti imag i built for myself from the outsid . ” “ at night , everi thought and feel that come to mind keep switch to difficult thing . i am flood with memori ; toss and turn over and over and unabl to sleep . at about five , i get out of bed in despair and decid to spend the remain time ‘ til morn on my phone . ” she then recount what her day would be like if her mother and sister were still aliv , includ a poignant imag of find her mother in the kitchen bake “ some indulg chocol banana muffin that we could take with us ; and remind us , of cours , that it ’ s import to put on sunscreen so we don ’ t have wrinkl and to drink a lot becaus it ’ s hot today . ” keren muse about the “ orphan ’ s kaddish ” she find in her prayerbook and how she realiz , with a start , that thi memori prayer now refer to her . she conclud with a thought she learn from her father that she said “ help me continu . ” “ what if our life wa suppos to look like thi ? what if god predestin an allot time for them to be with us ? for 18 year ? and then we were meant to go on alon ? ” she ask . “ and then i ask myself , if i had the option and i knew that my life would look like thi from the begin , would i take it or give it up ? “ everyth in life that made me who i am today , i learn from them , ” keren said . “ mummi : if it ’ s do hess [ act of kind ] , give , care , cook like crazi , forgiv , be a listen ear but alway rememb that there is someth more to aspir to and to move forward , then that ’ s what she ’ ll do . “ maia : demand what you deserv , dress in style , give good advic , put effort into what is import to you , love the torah , and alway listen to other . “ rina : love thi countri , be righteou with complet faith that thi is the way , be humbl , love and believ that everyon ha someth special of their own . “ in short , of cours i would choos life ! “ mummi , maia , and rina , i believ that you are still by my side in everi dilemma i have , everi new begin , in everi frustrat and in everi achiev . thank you for be with me dure the most beauti 18 year of my life , and now i must move on : not by replac you , or forget you , but with you by my side and abov . ” tali , the younger dee sister , spoke about all the time , place , and circumst when she miss her mother and sister . in a heartrend admiss , tali share that “ i don ’ t have a mother ’ s voic in my life . there is no one to wake me up in the morn and push me out of bed . everyon want to make it easi for me , they tell me to [ have ] compass on myself – but i often just need your demand voic . i miss your hug . there is noth in the world that can replac it . and no human be can fill that place . someon who will take me with my temper , to whom i can show all my hard side – and no matter what , you will alway love me . ” move from the person to the nation , she said , “ and dure thi year , our nation ha also turn upsid down . after the attack [ on octob 7 ] , i thought a lot about the differ between soldier who knowingli put themselv at risk , and my famili , who just want to go on holiday . “ but i understood that we chose to live here in thi countri . and we were alway awar of the danger present in thi choic . the home front and the battl front are close to each other in our countri , ” tali said . “ mani peopl are now experienc what i experienc and i want to tell them it get easier , but i ’ m not sure i can say that . there are day when i realli manag to be happi . but there is no pill that can cure the pain ; there is no pill that fix everyth . “ … i ’ m not the same person after everyth that happen to me . thi stori is such a central part of my ident that you can ’ t realli know me without it . i ’ ve grown up . i have a broader perspect . thing i cri about a year ago are not the thing i cri about now , ” she said . “ in mani way , thi is what is happen to our nation . we went through someth huge : terribl . and we can ’ t go back to be what we were befor . we sacrif too much for thi . we need to grow up . our prayer should increas . ” tali conclud her remark by speak of how her mother and sister still influenc her . “ thank to rina , i now pay much more attent to the peopl around me : say hello to everyon , even the girl i ’ m less friendli with . to be a better friend , to reduc my ego ; to have a simpl joy . “ thank to maia , when i ’ m in midrasha i tri harder and invest more , and i ’ m not asham to ask question . “ thank to mummi , i tri to be more flexibl . “ some day it ’ s harder to feel it , but sometim i feel like i have three angel of my own , ” she reveal . “ i feel protect . ” a close friend speaksin a raw and deepli person speech deliv at the cemeteri , luci ’ s close friend danja kees relat an amus stori about how her friend convinc her to wake up in time to take an exercis class togeth earli sunday morn . “ sunday morn , i like you least of all , i have to admit . actual , i didn ’ t like you at all . no one is perki on sunday morn after shabbo … besid luci . ” luci ’ s enthusiasm eventu won kees over . “ that is your essenc , luci : believ in other – mayb even mani time more than you ever believ in yourself . ” later she declar , “ you love so , so hard ; tri so , so hard . had so mani love and care goal as a wife and a mother that sometim i thought to myself , ‘ what is the intens ? what is the rush ? breath . take less to heart . don ’ t work so hard . don ’ t tri so hard . ’ “ now i know that your soul knew that what other do in 70 , 80 , or 90 year , you had to do in less than 50 . ” the even memori program also featur a siyum ( conclus celebr ) on mishna made by maia ’ s friend , and word of torah in hebrew from rabbanit yemima mizrachi . the even end with a group sing - along , fill with song about moshiach ( messiah ) and redempt led by shlomo katz , who is a musician and rabbi of shirat david in efrat .  the writer is a freelanc journalist and expert on the non - jewish awaken to torah happen in our day . she is the editor of ten from the nation and light up the nation .