as long as the palestinian author support terror there is no point in it exist , financ minist bezalel smotrich said as he sign an order to transfer ni 139 million of palestinian tax fee to isra terror victim on sunday . & ldquo ; the pa must decid if it want to continu to exist and if so , it will deal with the need of it arab citizen in judea and samaria and will stop engag with terror or it doe not want to exist and it prefer to return to the situat where it is israel & rsquo ; s enemi , & rdquo ; said smotrich . '' the pa ha to decid if it want to continu to exist and then if so , it will deal with the need of it arab citizen in judea and samaria and will stop engag with terror or it doe not want to exist and it prefer to return to the situat where it is israel ' s enemi . '' bezalel smotrichan enemi is an entiti that one doe battl with it , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; there is no situat in the world where on one hand the pa is a partner that receiv fund from us and on the other hand it is an enemi that is lead [ terror activ ] and support the murder of isra , & rdquo ; smotrich said . israel ha long oppos the pa polici of pay monthli stipend to terrorist who have kill isra and their famili . the secur cabinet on thursday decid to resum the polici of withhold the sum given to terrorist from the tax fee it transfer to the pa . it also decid to divert an addit sum of ni 139 million to isra terror victim . the move creat a financi crisi for the pa , which is alreadi in dire econom strait . smotrich told report that the pa & rsquo ; s financi collaps is a crisi of it own make and not hi concern . & ldquo ; as long as the pa support terror and is an enemi , whi am i interest in help it exist ? my onli interest in it exist is if it oper within exist agreement & hellip ; and take care of it citizen and thwart and act against terror and work in conjunct with the isra secur forc , then the pa is an author with which one can have a in - depth relationship , & rdquo ; smotrich said . the withhold of tax fee wa part of a seri of sanction israel impos on the pa to protest it success initi through the intern court of justic , which will now issu an advisori opinion on the legal of israel & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; occup . & rdquo ; israel suspend palestinian foreign minist riyad al - maliki ' s travel passisrael suspend on sunday a pass eas palestinian author foreign minist riyad al - maliki & rsquo ; s travel in the west bank as part of the sanction it level against the pa late last week to protest it push for an intern court of justic advisori opinion against the jewish state . & ldquo ; the foreign minist will continu hi job and hi diplomat activ with or without the card , & rdquo ; maliki & rsquo ; s aid ahm al - deek told reuter . maliki & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; vip & rdquo ; travel card wa confisc by border staff as he cross from jordan into the west bank via the allenbi cross , hi offic said . the defens ministri confirm the suspens of maliki & rsquo ; s vip pass . retaliatori measur taken by israel against palestiniansin an interview with voic of palestin radio , maliki said hi offic had written to govern around the world ask that to condemn the isra sanction . israel confisc maliki & rsquo ; s vip card in 2021 after he return from a meet of the icc . it wa not immedi clear whi the card had been confisc and when it will be restor . prime minist benjamin netanyahu discuss the sanction at the start of hi weekli govern meet , explain that they were in respons to & ldquo ; a radic anti - israel decis at the un . & rdquo ; he said that & ldquo ; these step includ sanction against senior palestinian offici , the offset of terrorist fund and the freez of palestinian construct project in area c , which contraven the explicit commit that the pa ha taken upon itself . & ldquo ; we have establish a differ govern with a differ polici , and everyon will see thi , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . on sunday , financ minist bezalel smotrich order tax author director eran ya & rsquo ; akov to transfer ni 138 . 8 million from tax fee it had collect on behalf of the pa to isra victim of palestinian terror . & ldquo ; today we are correct an injustic , & rdquo ; smotrich said . & ldquo ; thi is an import day for moral , justic and the war on terror , & rdquo ; particularli given the pa & rsquo ; s polici of pay monthli stipend to terrorist and their famili , he said . & ldquo ; there is no greater justic than offset the author & rsquo ; s fund that support terror and transfer them to the famili of the victim of terror , & rdquo ; smotrich said . & ldquo ; there is no comfort here for the famili of the murder , but there is justic here . i am happi that i had the privileg of lead thi amend process as one of my first action as financ minist , & rdquo ; he said . the parent of lt . shir hajaj , 22 , one of four soldier kill in a jerusalem terror attack in 2017 , were present in the ministri when smotrich sign the order and they thank the govern for it decis . '' we made it our goal to prevent the next attack and the take of these fund will creat deterr . thi is how we spare anoth famili from bereav . '' herzl hajaj & ldquo ; we made it our goal to prevent the next attack and the take of these fund will creat deterr . thi is how we spare anoth famili from bereav , & rdquo ; herzl hajaj said . separ , nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir order the polic to remov all palestinian flag from the public domain and to halt ani event of incit against israel . ben - gvir said that & ldquo ; it is inconceiv that law breaker should fli flag of terror , incit and abet terror . & rdquo ; reuter contribut to thi report .