in a joint oper in nablu on thursday , the idf , the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) and the border polic kill three terrorist respons for the dee famili murder . three member of the dee famili & ndash ; luci ( leah ) and her two daughter , maia and rina & ndash ; were kill by the terrorist in earli april dure passov . the three terrorist were hassan katan , maad mitzri and ibrahim hura . hama member katan and mitzri were the killer , and hura wa a key accomplic . while the death of the terrorist mean they can not be interrog , the jerusalem post receiv indic that the evid against them for the dee murder wa multifacet , with hama itself claim that the terrorist were import oper member . a statement by the idf and shin bet describ an extens gunfight between the secur forc and the terrorist , and the post receiv indic that drone were use as well . idf offici : nablu oper complet at ' unusu fast speed ' a senior idf central command offic said the oper wa complet with unusu speed within an hour and not the usual sever hour . & ldquo ; with less talent and exact [ in intellig and oper ] , more idf personnel or palestinian civilian could have been hurt , & rdquo ; or the terrorist might have escap , he said . eight palestinian were injur , he said , ad that they were not innoc bystand . accord to palestinian report , a fourth palestinian civilian bystand , ziad shuviri , wa kill dure the oper . the post wa unabl to confirm the accuraci of either report . the senior offic said the speed with which israel bring terrorist to justic , whether it take day or week , versu month and year , can serv either to deter terror or help terrorist recruit more peopl when the respons take too long . & ldquo ; there are no safe - haven citi in the west bank [ for terrorist ] & ndash ; not jenin , not nablu , nowher , & rdquo ; he said . overal , & ldquo ; we are still in a veri challeng period , & rdquo ; he ad . & ldquo ; the level of shoot attack is still veri high . & rdquo ; the senior offic also impli that hama as an organ wa invest more in the current wave of terror than it wa befor , when most of the attack were be carri out by unaffili & ldquo ; lone wolf & rdquo ; attack . the final round of intellig collect start earli thursday when isra intellig receiv confirm of the locat of the terrorist , includ a tip by certain palestinian forc about the terrorist & rsquo ; vehicl , accord to some report . the senior offic did not deni the use of drone in the oper , but he downplay their role and emphas the role of the ground forc . idf to use arm drone for target kill in west bank ? video footag show what appear to be undercov isra secur forc enter the market as local women and men to surround the area and prevent ani escap befor the rest of the forc move in . earlier in the day , the idf confirm that it wa engag in oper against terrorist in nablu , without provid specif . it kept the drone tactic under the public & rsquo ; s radar . the militari usual send in foot soldier to detain suspect or engag in combat in such case without use drone beyond collect intellig . the use of drone in the west bank could mark a new tactic shift if it were use , possibl to avoid larger friction with palestinian civilian present in the residenti area , while maintain the abil to carri out a more target attack . until now , drone have onli been use onli to collect intellig and sometim to fire missil to kill terrorist in gaza , while kamikaz explos drone have reportedli been use against iranian target , but not in the west bank . & ldquo ; after the terrorist attack , there wa a signific intellig effort [ that ] led to locat the hideout in the nablu kasbah , & rdquo ; the joint statement by secur forc said . more intellig wa receiv earli on thursday that led to the terrorist & rsquo ; locat , includ the seizur of two m - 16 rifl and a kalashnikov gun , it said . the secur forc said they would & ldquo ; continu to act with determin to thwart all terrorist threat & rdquo ; direct at isra . some soldier reportedli were lightli wound , but a senior idf offic deni those report . he did clarifi that he wa refer specif to whether ani soldier were hospit , mean that there is a possibl that some did experi minor wound that were treat at the scene , without the need for hospit . defens minist yoav gallant prais the secur forc . & ldquo ; as i promis leo [ dee ] , the defens establish & rsquo ; s arm will reach everi terrorist , & rdquo ; he said . efrat mayor ode revivi thank secur forc for the nablu oper . the assassin of terrorist is the & ldquo ; best respons to terror , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; we will continu to hug the dee famili and strengthen as a commun . & rdquo ; rabbi leo dee said : & ldquo ; the kid and i were comfort to hear that the isra secur forc have elimin the iranian - fund terrorist respons for luci , maia and rina & rsquo ; s murder . thi ha been done in a way that ha not endang the live of isra soldier , nor innoc palestinian civilian , in a way that onli the isra armi know how to do . & ldquo ; furthermor , we have ask for the opportun to speak with the terrorist & rsquo ; famili and ask what good they thought would come out of their action and to hear their vision for a better world . & rdquo ; speak at shin bet headquart , prime minist benjamin netanyahu said the isra secur forc had kill or captur about 110 palestinian & ldquo ; murder & rdquo ; in recent month . הערכה רבה לכוחות הביטחון על חיסול חוליית המחבלים שביצעה את הפיגוע הנתעב בחמרה בו נרצחו האם לוסי ובנותיה מאיה ורינה די . כפי שהבטחתי לליאו , אב המשפחה , ידה הארוכה של מערכת הביטחון תגיע לכל מחבל & mdash ; יואב גלנט - yoav gallant ( @ yoavgal ) may 4 , 2023rabbi leo dee said that & ldquo ; the kid and i were comfort to hear that the isra secur forc have elimin the iranian - fund terrorist respons for luci , maia and rina & rsquo ; s murder . thi ha been done in a way that ha not endang the live of isra soldier , nor innoc palestinian civilian & ndash ; in a way that onli the isra armi know how to do . & ldquo ; furthermor , we have ask for the opportun to speak with the terrorist & rsquo ; famili and ask what good they thought would come out of their action and to hear their vision for a better world . & rdquo ; speak at shin bet headquart , prime minist benjamin netanyahu said the isra secur forc had kill or captur about 110 palestinian & ldquo ; murder & rdquo ; in recent month . there have been mani recent oper , but it wa unclear how he arriv at the number and whether they includ the captur of palestinian terrorist plan attack against isra . jerusalem post staff contribut to thi report . & nbsp ;