the us state depart ha inform the father of a world vision offici on trial for allegedli assist hama that it is close monitor the case , accord to an email obtain by the jerusalem post . mohammad el halabi , who claim the charg against him were made to delegitim hi humanitarian work , ha been detain for nearli five and a half year and ha been wait for a verdict from the beersheba district court sinc close argument conclud last juli and octob . hi father , khalil el halabi , had sent a letter to the us govern to request assist to free hi son or to at least hasten a verdict and a close to the unprecedentedli drawn - out proceed . in the januari 31 email be disclos now for the first time , the us embassi in jerusalem respond to el halibi , say : & ldquo ; the unit state is awar of your son & rsquo ; s case and ha also cover it in our annual countri report on human right practic . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; offic at the embassi have close monitor hi case and have previous been in touch with world vision and mohammad & rsquo ; s attorney to learn more about hi detent and court case , & rdquo ; it said . & ldquo ; we & rsquo ; ve also been in touch with the isra author to express our concern over the impact hi case ha had on the shrink humanitarian space in gaza , & rdquo ; it ad . & ldquo ; we will continu to monitor the case close and rais our concern with the appropri offici , & rdquo ; the us embassi said . in parallel , mohammad el halabi & rsquo ; s lawyer , maher hana , is tri to get him freed from detent pend the verdict , given that he ha been in pre - verdict detent for so long . a hear on the issu befor the suprem court that had been schedul for thi come tuesday ha been postpon until februari 15 . el halabi ha vehement deni the charg and accus the prosecut and the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) of manufactur charg , coerc a confess to undermin humanitarian organ in gaza and drag out the case . to date , onli the defend ha been critic the prosecut , with the state refrain from respond publicli due to concern about reveal classifi intellig . el halabi wa indict in august 2016 for channel $ 7 . 2 million a year to hama to buy weapon and build attack tunnel . the money wa to have been use by world vision for food , humanitarian assist and aid program for disabl children . neither world vision nor an australian govern audit found the wrongdo allegedli uncov by the shin bet . meanwhil , israel is tri to convinc the intern crimin court and countri in europ that it legal system is legitim and fair to avoid war - crime trial and combat charg of apartheid from amnesti intern and other . close argument for the prosecut start last spring , but like much of the case , they drag out for unclear reason until octob . last march , the justic ministri indic it would releas key point of it close argument to the public in respons to some of the defend & rsquo ; s alleg that hi right had been abus . ultim , the ministri decid not to releas ani inform and to postpon that issu at the court & rsquo ; s discret as part of the verdict . though the ministri claim the court postpon ani disclosur , it usual is the prosecut that request gag order in the first place . sinc last march , more alleg have emerg from el halabi & rsquo ; s side . one is that he wa fool by an undercov inform in detent into confirm detail that the inform kept pressur el halabi to confirm . accord to the defens , el halabi told law - enforc offici the confess wa coerc from the first moment they rais it with him . the origin document record the confess wa lost by the polic . the defens ha said the case should have been dismiss in light of the circumst in which the confess wa given . the polic record of what wa said is an inauthent photocopi , rais question of a polic cover - up , it said . in addit , the defens ha claim that world vision did not transfer ani materi to gaza at some of the cross point where the prosecut say el halabi made illeg transfer to hama . although these alleg are new to the public , the prosecut ha been awar of them and respond to them behind close door throughout the trial , the post ha learn . the prosecut & rsquo ; s respons are classifi at thi stage , but the prosecut appar acknowledg have use an undercov inform and would say thi is a standard approv tactic and that no illeg pressur wa appli . moreov , the prosecut would point out that the court had alreadi reject ani alleg of a coerc confess earlier in the case and that the onli question left for it to settl is how much weight to give the confess . regard the alleg of a lost document , it appear the prosecut would like express regret and reject ani conspiraci theori , ad that thi is not the first case such an error occur and that the defens ha not flag ani specif issu to invalid the authent of the copi of the confess . regard the border cross , the prosecut would respond that el halabi wa a clever oper and sometim use differ organ or name to move materi , while use world vision as hi main launder tool . last march , khalil el halabi told the post mohammad el halabi had & ldquo ; brought conclus evid and testimoni of the employe of the organ and intern and extern intern auditor , as well as contractor and even farmer , who all testifi that there wa no divers of ani fund from the activ of the organ . & rdquo ; el halabi said thi show that alleg regard hi son misappropri humanitarian fund for hama were unfound . further , he said , & ldquo ; at least three defens expert confirm that the exist & lsquo ; evid & rsquo ; is clearli unreli and untru & hellip ; base on limit preliminari examin onli & hellip ; due to the confidenti impos on me by the state , i am not allow to comment on the natur of the evid . & rdquo ; accord to khalil el halabi , the defens ha call three expert wit , like relat to financ or audit , as well as employe of world vision , contractor and farmer involv with how the ngo & rsquo ; s fund were spent . the defens also claim it did not see all of the evid . the prosecut would say el halabi use tactic such as falsifi document or conceal the use of certain fund use other entiti to hide hi use of world vision as a financi launder instrument , just as he did with physic transfer of mat & eacut ; riel for hama , the post ha learn . further , the prosecut ha said even though the public ha not seen the full evid , the defens ha . both side accus the other of unconscion delay relat to fight over how the trial would take place , what evid the defens would get to see and the possibl in the earlier year of reach a plea deal .