when israel need water in the desert , we creat pioneer irrig technolog . when face with non - convent threat , we becam a cyber empir . in the wake of the octob 7 tragedi , israel is still face a whole new host of problem . these challeng , though new to isra , are too familiar to mani countri that experi natur and man - made disast . sadli , these disast are grow in frequenc and sever . the aw experi that octob 7 forc upon us can break us or lead to the develop of the most power impact - tech ecosystem the world ha ever seen , chang the trajectori of thi space forev . thi will not be an easi opportun to seiz , but we believ that we must go all in & ndash ; it will serv our recoveri process , it & rsquo ; s an opportun to play a role in address global challeng , and it offer an incred econom engin if we do it right . disast are not go away , but our innov respons can turn advers into opportun . much ha been written about israel as the start - up nation , the blossom , middl eastern tech miracl where there are more start - up per capita than anywher els on the planet . israel & rsquo ; s tech ecosystem unsurprisingli focus on sector such as cyber , fintech , and enterpris solut ; and with good reason . the ecosystem grew under the influenc of foreign tech leader and ventur capitalist with background in corpor , the militari , and financ , and wa fuel by innov from the idf . thi influenc ha pave the way for isra founder to focu on problem affect compani and institut in the us and western societi & ndash ; a sensibl approach given the financi opportun in these area and the first - hand experi of the ecosystem veteran who were abl to mentor , fund , and support entrepreneur work on problem they knew . octob 7 and subsequ event have thrust all isra into unchart territori . despit struggl with disbelief and contend with a govern that is untrust and not function ideal , isra and their alli around the world have respond with what we believ will be rememb in histori as one of the best commun respons to a disast . ceo becam philanthropist , confer space becam donat center , volunt were organ to replac worker draft into reserv servic , and a jaw - drop amount of donat wa collect . unsurprisingli & ndash ; we also wit an extraordinari surg in ad hoc & lsquo ; emerg & rsquo ; hack . new tech solut were develop to identifi and track peopl in distress , provid rapid respons document solut in field condit , leverag crm for data manag of displac individu , util ai to identifi miss and kidnap peopl , and more . as israel transit from emerg respons to recoveri , we are start to see a similar innov spirit in address long - term recoveri issu . innov recoveryon exampl is citizen ai & ndash ; a fintech start - up that leverag it financi educ platform to help individu and organ understand their right and navig the complex benefit system . util of right and financi health is not a new problem in israel ( nor around the world ) , but now , the flood of peopl in need and the new program are drive focu and clariti to what is requir . in the agricultur sector , program such as regrow israel are not onli focus on build what wa destroy , but are also seiz the opportun to build a more advanc , tech - enabl , and resili agricultur ecosystem . these program have the potenti to not onli strengthen the food system that sustain the countri and support the livelihood of famili of farmer and other busi on the valu chain & ndash ; but also to provid critic insight and learn to fuel agtech compani . we are see a surg in innov in the physic and mental health space . with so mani individu work to recov and integr back into societi and the dozen of peopl surround them , in a place like israel , thi can onli mean one thing : more ground - break idea and solut . one exampl is the lev hasharon mental health center where cut - edg technolog such as vr are integr into the care plan of mental health patient , in depart such as hospit , daycar , and special clinic for sexual trauma and child - and - youth mental support . patient feedback ha been except posit , with about 70 % report signific reduct in anxieti and stress level . all these program and idea were not born in a vacuum . they were bred and incub through an incred impact - tech ecosystem that alreadi exist in israel . howev , they are the minor , underfund , and under - support , and thi must chang . as these sector are grow global and creat more demand & ndash ; now is the time to doubl down on these opportun . thi can be a defin moment or a grossli miss opportun for israel & rsquo ; s tech ecosystem and it nation economi . we must take thi terribl disast and the challeng it forc us to experi & ndash ; and do what we do best . solv . innov . build . and scale for the greater good and the benefit of all . for thi to happen , everyon need to play a role ; there is a lot of work to do . we need to close knowledg gap about new market , fund experiment , and bring togeth peopl who are not use to collabor with each other , such as social worker , engin , ngo leader , investor , nurs , and salespeopl & ndash ; we need them all to bring multidisciplinari knowledg and experi to the tabl . we built pollylab to bridg the tech gap and exponenti acceler solut to the world & rsquo ; s most press need . like everyon , octob 7 threw us all into a stark place , both person and profession . it also brought into sharp focu the tremend opportun for israel to build and heal itself and other like never befor . & nbsp ; let & rsquo ; s take on thi role ; we were made for thi . bar pereg is the ceo of pollylab . alina shkolnikov is the chief partnership offic at pollylab and a board member of the devorah forum .