an isra court ha acquit the polic offic charg with caus the death of 18 - year - old solomon tekah of the ethiopian commun , five year ago , isra media report on tuesday . the polic offic claim that when he arriv with hi wife and children at a playground in a grove in kiryat haim he broke up a brawl between teenag , after which the group , tekah includ , threw stone at him and hi famili . feel their live were in danger , the polic offic said he shot at the ground . despit mani version of the incid , the evid show that the bullet ricochet off the asphalt and hit tekah . the kill trigger widespread protest in 2019 . tekah ' s famili comment on verdict & nbsp ; tekah & rsquo ; s mother state , & ldquo ; we are in pain and live in pain , not onli we , the parent , but also our children . for a whole month we and the children did not sleep , we knew that the judg would not convict the polic offic . we left the court in the middl becaus toler the judg & rsquo ; s word or hear what he said wa imposs . & rdquo ; tekah & rsquo ; s father said at the end of the trial , & ldquo ; we didn & rsquo ; t tri , and we didn & rsquo ; t think we would get a fair trial from lawyer in israel . we struggl for four year becaus we thought we might be abl to bring chang , but we were deceiv . & ldquo ; the 13 young peopl kill from the ethiopian commun were not kill by the brutal hama , but by our peopl , by policemen whom we financ with our money . they were kill becaus they were black . how can a policeman 30 meter away from the children dress as a civilian shoot a boy just becaus he ask who he wa and to introduc himself ? & ldquo ; there is no polic to protect the ethiopian commun and no judg to give us a fair trial , & rdquo ; he ad . leav court , tekah & rsquo ; s sister state , & ldquo ; now all policemen have a right to kill , & rdquo ; accord to isra media . speak with maariv , the tekah famili & rsquo ; s lawyer said , & ldquo ; the famili is disappoint with the result ; we expect to hear a differ decis but hope that the prosecutor & rsquo ; s offic will decid to file an appeal . judg ziad falah said follow the acquitt , & ldquo ; there is a lacuna in the procedur - in an event in which a polic offic is in tangibl and immedi danger ... the policeman ha the author to shoot at the bodi of the person endang him , and to forgo all the warn step preced the shoot . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; along with thi author , the policeman must reduc , as much as possibl , the danger aris from hi author to shoot at the bodi of the person endang him , & rdquo ; the judg ad . & ldquo ; the accus act in self - defens when he carri out the shoot , which unfortun led to the death of the deceas , & rdquo ; he conclud . public committe against tortur condemn rulingth justic ministri & rsquo ; s polic investig depart ( pid ) releas a statement which read , & ldquo ; the court rule today that the file of the indict by the pid wa justifi and that the pid act properli and profession , both in the conduct of the investig and at the time of the decis on the file of the indict and the manag of the case . howev , the court found that there wa room to acquit the accus for sever reason . we will studi the verdict and consid our step . & rdquo ; accord to maariv , the pid wa reportedli consid an appeal . the public committe against tortur in israel said , & ldquo ; onc again the system stand up and back up a violent policeman , who shot to death a young man of ethiopian origin claim that he & lsquo ; felt a real threat to hi life . & rsquo ; it seem that as far as it concern minor commun , ani norm or direct that is intend precis for thi type of case , such as shoot warn shot in the air , for exampl , doe not appli , & rdquo ; the committe continu . & ldquo ; the wheel can not be turn back , nor the life of the late tekah , but it wa possibl to obtain a littl justic for hi famili and the commun from which he come , with a convict that would send a clear and resound messag that polic violenc is wrong and that violent polic offic must be brought to justic . in it decis today , the court turn a cold shoulder to the victim and hi famili and ad anoth injustic to the pile of injustic alreadi caus in thi sad case , & rdquo ; the committe note . maariv , yonah jeremi bob , and mark weiss contribut to thi articl .