three member of the islam jihad terrorist movement were kill in a firefight with isra forc in the west bank town of jaba , near jenin , earli thursday morn . idf soldier and border polic offic were oper in the area to arrest palestinian suspect of terrorist activ when the three began fire on the isra forc from within a vehicl nearbi . the isra forc fire back and kill the three . in the car , isra forc found firearm and explos . photo from the scene show the logo of the islam jihad movement on object in the vehicl after the raid . slain palestinian identifi as islam jihad militantsth three palestinian were identifi as sufyan adnan ismail al - fakhouri , 26 , ahm muhammad dheeb fashafsha , 22 , and nayef ahm yusef malaysha , 25 . accord to palestinian report , the three were releas from isra prison just a few month ago . the idf state that the three are suspect of carri out a number of shoot attack in recent month . the three were identifi as islam jihad milit ahmad bashabsha and sufyan fakhouri . a third slain palestinian , nayef maleisha , wa also identifi as a milit . as the isra forc were exit jaba , anoth arm palestinian began fire at them . the soldier shot back , hit the terrorist . isra forc were reinforc in the area of jaba on thursday morn follow violent clash that broke out in respons to the kill . dure the oper in jaba , palestinian shot down an isra `` ski rider `` drone oper in the area . the idf state that there is no concern over inform leak and that the incid will be intern probe . عاجل | إسقاط طائرة مسيرة لجيش الاحتلال في بلدة جبع جنوب جنين . pic . twitter . com / hfdhaxrwm5 & mdash ; شبكة قدس الإخبارية ( @ qudsn ) march 9 , 2023addit , on thursday , a 14 - year - old palestinian name wallid nasser succumb to wound sustain dure clash with isra forc that took place in jenin earlier thi week . the clash in jaba come just day after abdel fattah hussain harusha , the terrorist who murder hallel and yagel yaniv in huwara wa kill in a firefight with the idf and the nation counter terror unit ( yamam ) in jenin . in total , six palestinian die in that raid and 26 more were wound , accord to the palestinian health ministri . two yamam offic were lightli injur by palestinian fire dure the raid in jenin . the hama terrorist movement warn that the respons to the death `` will not be long in come . '' islam jihad spokesman tariq selmi state that `` the bill of reckon with the occup will not be close , and it continu aggress and violat place befor the resist it duti and respons in defend the palestinian peopl . '' fatah spokesman munther al - hayek respond to the death as well , state `` the new assassin crime in jenin and all terrorist practic to resolv the conflict will not succeed . blood follow blood , and histori is a wit to the peopl ' s victori . '' nabil abu rudeineh , a spokesman for palestinian author presid mahmoud abba , call the clash and recent violenc `` an all - out isra war against the palestinian peopl . '' oper break the wave15 palestinian were arrest by isra forc overnight throughout the west bank as part of oper break the wave , includ in silat ad - dhahr , al - yamun and sebastia , among other locat . nation secur minist itamar ben - gvir congratul isra forc on the oper in jaba , state `` i congratul the yama ( border polic undercov unit ) offic and all the secur forc , for the exact oper and the elimin of the abomin terrorist who open fire at our soldier , in an attempt to hurt them and murder our heroic soldier . '' '' everi terrorist who would tri to hurt us must know that hi blood is on hi head and we will bring him to account . i urg the public to continu to show high vigil , especi dure thi period , '' ad ben - gvir . later on thursday , four palestinian fishermen were injur by rubber bullet fire by the isra navi toward them off the coast of the northern gaza strip . on wednesday , idf chief of staff herzi halevi met with the head of settlement and region council in the west bank to conduct a situat assess and updat them on the idf ' s oper in the area . the settlement leader express appreci for the idf ' s effort to thwart terror and rais a number of issu that need handl in the west bank , includ the distribut of firearm among palestinian , the need for acceler work on road and infrastructur and stone and molotov cocktail throw . the head of the gush etzion region council shlomo neeman state after the meet `` regular discours and full cooper between idf offic and author are part of our routin . '' ne ' eman thank halevi for the convers and wish him success in hi new role as chief of staff . '' the citizen of the state of israel are entitl to travel safe on everi road in judea and samaria , '' ad ne ' eman . `` there is no differ between a stone - thrower or a terrorist who carri out a shoot , both have one goal - to hurt the peopl and the state and kick us out of here . onli the heavi hand of the secur forc against each danger will return deterr and quiet to the area . '' idf chief of staff herzi halevi held a review of the recent violenc in the west bank with the command of the idf ' s central command on wednesday . halevi prais the soldier under central command for the complex oper they carri out in recent week . '' these complex oper send a clear messag to terrorist , that we will get to everi terrorist and captur or hit everi terrorist , wherev they are , '' said halevi . the chief of staff addit review the riot that took place last week in huwara , in which hundr of isra settler torch dozen of home and vehicl and shot and kill a palestinian citizen after two isra were murder in a terrorist attack in the town . the command at the meet note that the pogrom in huwara wa `` a veri seriou incid that should have been prevent , '' note that the violenc wa unusu in it scope and intens . the command note that lesson were learn concern improv need for cooper between the idf , border polic , israel polic and shin bet and that improv are need in the secur forc ' abil to rapidli redeploy in develop situat . '' thi is a seriou incid that occur on our watch - and should not have happen , '' said the chief of staff . `` the chain of command correctli decid the order of prioriti between the variou task , but er in the alloc of forc and control of the event . the expect from everi regular and reservist soldier is to act in a profession and ethic manner and to prevent act like these , as we train him and in accord with the valu ​​ of the idf . '' '' we will draw the necessari lesson and learn them to prevent similar incid in the futur , '' ad halevi .