the idf and the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) around 2 : 30 p . m . thursday afternoon final admit to have arrest the director of shifa hospit , which ha been at the center of media narr battl between israel and hama in gaza . first , report in the palestinian and hebrew media about hi arrest surfac alreadi much earlier thursday morn . question repeatedli earlier in the morn about whi he had been arrest and whi no offici announc had gone out , isra and idf offici ' respons altern from surpris at the event to a promis that an announc would go out soon . howev , even the 2 : 30 p . m . announc did not make ani direct charg against the shifa chief . rather , the announc said that he had been arrest and brought to the shin bet for interrog after signific testimoni and video evid from other that shifa had been use as a command center for hama dure the director ' s tenur . the statement state , `` the terror group hama util mani resourc , includ electr in order to strengthen it tunnel which it built under the hospit . in addit , hama kept militari item store in the hospit and in it immedi surround . '' in addit , the statement read that after the octob 7 hama mass terror attack on israel ' s south , the terror group `` use the hospit as a refug for it terror forc and even brought isra hostag to there who were kidnap dure the day of slaughter . a patholog report confirm that soldier noa marciano wa murder on the ground of shifa hospit . '' next , the statement said vagu that , `` a decis regard hi detent would be made in conjunct with the find of the investig regard hi involv with the hospit ' s connect to terror . '' there are a number of possibl scenario about how thi could play out . if israel ha direct palestinian wit testimoni or videograph evid to incrimin the director , he could actual be brought to trial befor special civilian court or isra militari court on those charg and could be potenti sentenc to prison time in israel . altern , israel may not have such direct incrimin evid , and it evid may be more ambigu , such as the idea that it would be imposs for ani reason director to be complet oblivi to the sheer volum of use by hama of hi hospit . in thi case , it might still tri to mount a case for some kind of easier to prove more minor charg , such as aid and abet terror without even be a member of a terror group . yet anoth possibl is that the shin bet hope to scare him into provid them intellig inform to more quickli uncov the remain aspect of hama ' s conceal presenc at shifa , in which case if he cooper , he may be releas with no charg . even if a case is brought against him , he could alway defend against ani convict by claim hi life wa under threat and that ani passiv cooper he provid to hama wa under coercion and duress , or wa for the benefit of hi patient , who hama might otherwis kill . thi could make him difficult to convict . in all scenario , detain him will be complex global , as gener democraci do not detain senior medic staff who are not their citizen . hama immedi condemn the arrest of the director of the hospit , say `` we see thi move by israel as noth less than despic , lack ani sens of human and moral . it is also a flagrant violat of intern norm and charter , given oblig to ensur that medic personnel are never harm , includ in time of war . '' '' we call on intern bodi , includ the intern committe of the red cross and the world health organ ( who ) , with which dr . muhammad wa in contact to evacu the remain patient and wound from al - shifa hospit , to exert pressur on the isra occup armi to secur hi releas , along with the medic personnel who were arrest simpli for continu to fulfil their humanitarian duti . '' sinc 2014 , top isra defens offici have repeatedli state that top hama offici spent the 2014 gaza conflict hide in tunnel under shifa hospit and the complex ha sinc been turn into a massiv underground militari instal . in recent day , the idf ha publish footag show room and tunnel found under the hospit , as well as weapon found in the facil . hostag held in shifa hospitalsurveil camera footag retriev from the hospit show at least two hostag be brought by arm individu into the hospit on octob 7 , includ one who wa be drag by hi head through the hospit . idf r .- adm . daniel hagari also reveal recent that intellig ha shown that isra hostag , noa marciano , wa kill in shifa . the idf did not comment on report that a small number of other medic staff were arrest . meanwhil , the idf work hard on thursday to toughen it posit across northern gaza to prevent ani surpris attack by hama . in 2014 , hama violat a number of temporari ceasefir , in some case success surpris and kill idf soldier . idf chief - of - staff lt .- gen . herzi halevi had held a brief with all major gener , brigadi gener , and colonel involv in gaza oper on wednesday to ensur that they would be readi for anyth hama might tri . the idf also said that maj . gen . ( re . ) nitzan alon had set up a special apparatu near the gaza border for take in hostag presum hama follow through with the term of the war paus . & nbsp ; that apparatu is highli organ both in term of special medic and psycholog staff as well as helicopt and other heavi weaponri to ensur secur . besid those develop , due to the war paus be delay , the idf continu attack on hama on thursday in jabalia and zeitoun , northeast area which it onli turn it attent to late last week after have alreadi taken over central gaza citi . the idf said it had found more weapon hidden in children ' s bed , mosau , and other civilian locat , as it had previous in other part of gaza . if the war paus end in the next 4 - 10 day , the idf would be expect to spend some day or up to a week finish with hama in jabalia and zeitoun as well as take on hama in the tough shejaiya neighborhood where some of the harshest battl were fought in 2014 . the idf would also need to eventu invad khan youni and rafah , among other hama southern stronghold , which could take more time to subdu .