in the best of time , the eeri transit from remembr day & ndash ; the sad music , the half - mast flag , the nation mourn & ndash ; into the jubil of independ day is jar . thi year , the first sinc octob 7 chang israel forev , it wa unfathom . no firework , no raucou parti in the park with the countri & rsquo ; s top talent belt out the hit , and no kid attack each other with string spray . accord to most report , the street were gener extrem quiet for independ day , as mani of the populac prefer to stay close to home and hunker down with their famili and friend for more intim commemor . duel ceremoni tout the countri & rsquo ; s irrefut achiev and it citizen & rsquo ; braveri ( the offici state - sponsor event ) on the one hand , and on the other hand , spotlight the hostag held in gaza by hama and the inabl to celebr amid a bloodi war that ha seen thousand of soldier kill or wound ( the altern grassroot event ) . the differ realiti israel encounterslook on a split screen , one could ask which wa the real israel at 76 ? they both reflect a realiti of where the countri is at thi most precari moment in it short life . the onli conclus that can be drawn is that they & rsquo ; re both accur and reflect the pain , uncertainti , and sad that exemplifi thi year & rsquo ; s remembr and independ day , as well as the pride in the accomplish of the world & rsquo ; s onli jewish state . we & rsquo ; re a broken , damag countri , fill with question about it govern and institut that enabl octob 7 to take place or whi it did not succeed in the last seven month of the war to defeat hama or bring the more than 130 hostag or their remain back home . yet , take a step back , it & rsquo ; s undeni that israel ' s last 76 year are a huge success stori & ndash ; a triumph of human spirit unmatch in recent histori . that doesn & rsquo ; t help fill the agon void and anguish the countri felt thi week , howev . the 24 hour of remembr day , fill with heart - wrench stori of the oh - so - fresh death of so mani peopl who were so full of life and had so much to offer , wa too much to bear . but , bear it we do - becaus there & rsquo ; s no altern . thi year & rsquo ; s independ day , rather than a celebr , wa more like a remind that ye , no matter how bleak thing may seem right now , we & rsquo ; re still here and what we & rsquo ; ve built and cherish is still worth fight for . everi day in israel is remembr and independ day . we can never forget the sacrific made by so mani to establish the countri and bring it to the great height it achiev in it first 76 year . at the same time , we can never take it independ for grant . rather than the usual over - the - top merriment , the last 24 hour offer a bear hug to peopl desper in need of it . we & rsquo ; re a long way from start a heal process & ndash ; one that will take year to complet , if ever . that will onli begin onc the hostag are freed , hama is render not to be a formid threat to israel & rsquo ; s secur ani longer , our soldier stop die in the gaza battlefield , and the resid of the north feel safe enough to return to their home . and , of cours , all of that is bracket by the prime minist and the head of the countri & rsquo ; s secur apparatu resign for their role in not prevent octob 7 . until that time , isra need to ask themselv : is what unifi us more power than what separ us ? if the answer is ye , then there & rsquo ; s hope that israel & rsquo ; s 77th independ day will be more joyou than the one that just sunk under the exhaust of war and sorrow . & nbsp ;