palestinian secur prison held in isra jail are plan a seri of measur thi week to protest the alleg failur of the israel prison servic ( ip ) to improv their condit . the move could escal tension between palestinian and israel , especi in the wake of call by sever palestinian group to hold ralli in support of the prison . what are the claim made by the palestinian ? the prison claim that the ip ha fail to fulfil it previou promis to eas sever restrict that were impos on them in the aftermath of the jail break by six inmat from gilboa prison last year . the restrict includ , among other thing , solitari confin and the transfer of dozen of inmat to other prison . the prison then announc a seri of protest against the restrict and threaten to go on a hunger strike . last march , howev , they agre to suspend their protest after reportedli receiv a promis from the ip to eas the restrict . on sunday , the palestinian prison club , a group that support the secur prison , said the inmat would resum their protest on monday . it said they would refus to leav their cell for routin secur check & ldquo ; as a step of disobedi against the prison administr law . & rdquo ; what ' s next for the palestinian prison ? the next stage of the protest will begin in two week when the prison are expect to go on an open - end hunger strike . more than 1 , 000 prison are schedul to particip in the hunger strike , the group claim . palestinian sourc said the prison who are plan to particip in the protest belong to all the palestinian faction , includ hama , palestinian islam jihad and the rule fatah faction head by palestinian author presid mahmoud abba . the sourc said the prison form an & ldquo ; emerg nation committe & rdquo ; after the ip impos a number of sanction on them in respons to the gilboa prison jailbreak , dure which six inmat escap through a tunnel they dug insid their cell . all the fugit were later captur by isra author . sinc then , the prison claim , the ip ha been move mani of them everi few week to differ prison as part of punit and preemptiv measur design to prevent anoth escap . the palestinian prison club call on palestinian to support the prison in their struggl against the restrict impos by the ip . the plan protest come as three secur prison are continu their hunger strike in isra jail . one of them , khalil awawdeh , 40 , ha been refus food for nearli six month . he went on a hunger strike after he wa place under administr detent ( detent without trial ) . the other two hunger striker are brother ahmad and adal musa , who are also in administr detent .