fifti - five year after the 1967 war , the statu of the west bank ( aka judea and samaria ) and of it palestinian arab resid remain unclear , temporari and offici disput . becaus the war & rsquo ; s outcom wa unexpect , israel & rsquo ; s govern at the time did not have a readi framework for the futur . in the best of jewish tradit , minist and pundit spent week , month and then year debat the issu , wait in vain for the palestinian to respond substant . & nbsp ; for more stori releas for the 55th anniversari of the six day war , click here . in thi vacuum , some isra group creat fact on the ground that evolv into settlement and citi on ancient jewish biblic site , while the armi establish posit that , in some instanc , becam town . the result wa chaotic , with no strateg or polit coher . unlik almost everi other countri , israel doe not have clear border and oper two parallel legal system & ndash ; one for pre - 1967 israel , and anoth for the resid of the post - & rsquo ; 67 territori . anoth unplan result is the gradual morph of the land from the mediterranean to the jordan river into a singl polit entiti , in which the palestinian and jewish popul of approxim the same size are lock into wave of terror and respons . for the palestinian , the 55 - year statu quo keep aliv the illus of move the clock back to 1947 , abet by massiv intern support for a uniqu and mythic & ldquo ; refuge & rdquo ; statu . the imag of a singl state in which half or more of the popul is palestinian , and where jew ( zionist ) eventu disappear like the crusad , is far more appeal than a & ldquo ; two - state solut , & rdquo ; which would acknowledg the legitimaci of jewish sovereignti , regardless of border . while mani isra have becom accustom to the stalem , for outsid & ndash ; includ mani jew & ndash ; israel is present by the ngo industri in cartoon - like portrait of coloni settler , apartheidist and serial killer of journalist , accompani by the slogan and myth of intern law . when al jazeera report shireen abu akleh wa kill in jenin , israel wa automat accus of & ldquo ; cold - blood murder , & rdquo ; ignor the absenc of evid . in part , thi demon reflect hostil to jewish empower & ndash ; in other word , antisemit & ndash ; regardless of border , and reinforc by ngo propaganda campaign . the post - 1967 imag , howev inaccur and unfair , make thi easier . in parallel , after more than five decad , ten of thousand of famili live outsid the 1949 & ldquo ; green line & rdquo ; face outbreak of chao and uncertainti . disput over land ownership lead to year of legal proceed and unpredict court decis . thi absurd situat is unimagin for peopl live a few kilomet away , on the other side , in & ldquo ; sovereign & rdquo ; israel . none of these observ are new & ndash ; inde , they should be obviou . not obviou at all is what can be done in 2022 to replac the statu quo with a better and realist framework , if one can be found . the search for altern that avoid the drift and end the chao is critic for the futur of israel and zionism . the goal here is not to propos anoth imaginari peac plan & ndash ; there are plenti of these gather dust on physic and virtual diplomat and academ shelv . rather , my object is to contribut to a renew isra debat on option and altern to the statu quo , base on where we are now , in june 2022 . the hope is that through a substant discuss anchor in polit realism , israel can move beyond the trap of continu chao lead to a singl non - zionist state . diplomat dead end : 1967 - 2022befor consid altern , a brief summari of previou effort is worthwhil , at least to avoid some of the illus and mistak . immedi after the 1967 war , euphor isra , who fear the worst just a few day befor , were suddenli abl to enter jerusalem & rsquo ; s old citi and visit the ancient biblic site that had been previous close to jew . a return to the narrow armistic line ( drawn in green on map ) that had prevail sinc 1949 wa , and remain , unthink . unlik egypt and syria , there wa no intern border in the west bank to serv as a basi for negoti & ndash ; jordan & rsquo ; s arab legion had occupi thi territori for almost 20 year , includ eastern jerusalem , and allow fedayeen to launch murder raid into israel . go back to the previou situat wa a non - starter & ndash ; the question wa , and remain , what should replac it ? in addit to hold jerusalem , offici agre that the jordan river would remain as israel & rsquo ; s eastern border , with a buffer and access zone in the jordan valley . but from here , the view diverg . foreign minist yigal allon present a plan in which small area such as gush etzion ( from which jew were expel in 1948 ) would be incorpor . but most of the west bank would revert to jordan , note that : & ldquo ; from a demograph standpoint , a jewish major will be kept / maintain , which would allow israel to exist as a democrat jewish state , base on the principl of the zionist vision . & rdquo ; in contrast , minist - without - portfolio menachem begin adamantli reject foreign sovereignti over ani part of the land of israel , includ judea and samaria & ndash ; the biblic term that were also use dure the british mandat . howev , while agre with allon on demographi and zionism , he reject annex , even as prime minist a decad later . begin & rsquo ; s altern wa autonomi for the & ldquo ; arab popul in the land of israel , & rdquo ; includ control of educ , financ , servic and other sector & ndash ; everyth except secur and foreign polici . neither allon & rsquo ; s nor begin & rsquo ; s propos went beyond the debat stage , primarili becaus the palestinian were onli interest in turn the clock back to 1947 & ndash ; in other word , the elimin of israel . noth caus them to abandon the & ldquo ; all - or - noth & rdquo ; approach and consid pragmat compromis , such as a & ldquo ; two - state solut & rdquo ; or a feder with jordan . in the polici vacuum , the isra presenc in these area gradual and chaotic increas . period , anoth attempt at chang would start & ndash ; for exampl , in 1987 , then - foreign minist shimon pere negoti secretli with jordan & rsquo ; s king hussein in london & ndash ; but thi wa anoth dead end . the oslo accord , sign in 1993 and accompani by a white hous extravaganza , mark the most sustain effort , includ the creation of the palestinian author , which govern more than 90 % of the palestinian popul . to isra , oslo wa present as embodi the & ldquo ; land for peac & rdquo ; formula , lead to a perman statu agreement and presum two state within five year . the term & ldquo ; end of conflict & rdquo ; wa use frequent , and the demograph threat to zionism seem to be avert . but to palestinian , plo leader yasser arafat market oslo as a short - term tactic measur , to be renounc onc the benefit had been realiz . the massiv unrwa & ldquo ; refuge & rdquo ; support system remain intact , and the incit and terrorist attack continu and even increas in the form of mass terror direct , or at least approv of , by arafat . isra recogn that on the other side , noth had chang . and israel & rsquo ; s improv relat with the so - call & ldquo ; intern commun & rdquo ; evapor quickli when the idf move to counter arafat & rsquo ; s war . the next effort to end the stalem took place in 2005 , when prime minist ariel sharon unilater & ldquo ; disengag & rdquo ; from gaza and from two small civilian locat ( & ldquo ; settlement & rdquo ; ) in samaria . two year later , the hama terrorist organ took control of gaza , follow by the acquisit of thousand of rocket and missil , and the construct of massiv terror tunnel . sharon becam incapacit in 2006 , israel fail to destroy the nascent hama war machin and discuss of further unilater withdraw from the west bank came to a halt , particularli with the elect of benjamin netanyahu in 2009 . but netanyahu also understood the difficulti inher in an infinit stalem , lead him to support the initi for unilater annex ( & ldquo ; extens of sovereignti & rdquo ; ) . detail were not reveal and no offici map were made public , but the discours focus on incorpor the major settlement and the strateg area of area c ( includ the jordan valley ) . howev , the effort becam mire in isra elector polit as well as strong intern opposit , and in 2020 , it wa offici halt in the context of the abraham accord . as thi brief histori demonstr , after 55 year , the temporari statu quo , with all of it weak , continu . at the same time , the default option of a singl polit entiti between the mediterranean and the jordan river , with roughli equal popul and the implic for zionism , also remain & ndash ; and as note , is the palestinian & rsquo ; s favorit . these problem will not disappear , and as isra , we have the oblig of continu to look for better option . a strategi of polit realismwith thi dismal histori , it is not surpris that mani isra have given up . the long drift and it implic are not includ in the elect platform of ani of the main parti , and that is precis the problem . it play into those who are not exactli support of zionism and see the evolut of a one - state framework as the best path to their object . to move forward by learn from the failur , a new strategi is long overdu , anchor in polit realism and concret isra interest , as distinct from hope , faith or ideolog . realism requir the care analysi of the rel potenti cost and benefit of differ option , includ continu the statu quo , base on secur ( militari capabl , defens border ) ; zionism and demographi ( a viabl jewish major ) ; and the percept of israel from the outsid ( public diplomaci and imag ) . on thi basi , and unlik oslo and the other experi , i suggest start from the end point & ndash ; israel & rsquo ; s urgent need to determin our border . onc we examin , debat and then decid on the area we need to hold and where israel & rsquo ; s and zionism & rsquo ; s interest are best serv by exit , the path necessari to reach thi outcom can be consid . beyond maintain the integr of jerusalem , particularli the old citi and it sacr site , the core pragmat requir is to maxim secur and minim control over and respons for the palestinian popul . in israel today , about 80 % identifi as jewish as compar to 20 % arab . among the world & rsquo ; s other nation - state base on a domin ethnic , religi or linguist group ( as distinct from inher multi - cultur countri ) , a minor of 20 % is alreadi consid quit high , particularli when that minor ha recidivist claim . border that would reduc the jewish major to 60 % , for exampl , would add signific strain to the zionist jewish hebrew - speak core . in examin other basic element , there is alreadi wide agreement on the need for full control of the strateg jordan valley and the main access corridor to defend it . similarli , the settlement bloc adjac to the pre - 1967 green line and within the separ barrier are readili incorpor into israel , without includ a larg palestinian popul . there are also a few except & ndash ; sizabl settlement locat in non - contigu area , such as ariel and beit el . but with popul of 20 , 000 and 7 , 000 , respect , abandon them is polit unrealist . the remain issu concern the futur of area c & ndash ; which , under the oslo accord , remain , at least in theori , under full isra control . extend from jerusalem east to the jordan river , and north along the jordan valley , thi land is import strateg , and ha a small palestinian popul . & nbsp ; howev , in the absenc of a coher polici , the palestinian and their european support team are busi creat their own settlement & ndash ; precis in order to disrupt isra requir . the palestinian & ldquo ; villag & rdquo ; that have been creat in key locat like khan al - ahmar and masaf yatta , includ fictiti backstori to persuad outsid of their authent , are attempt to foreclos the option of retain thi territori . the more time that pass befor decid which part of area c should becom part of israel , the more difficult thi process will becom . the final dimens concern percept . for some isra and diaspora jew , the most pain aspect of the post - 1967 statu quo is the imag of the jewish state as an occupi , portray as brutal deni the palestinian their own state . thi is the basi for campu boycott , divest and sanction resolut and other denunci of zionism . the question is whether demon would decreas significantli if the statu quo wa replac with declar border , particularli if these were recogn by the unit state and at least some european countri . would the jew who have becom hostil to and alien from israel becaus of the 55 - year & ldquo ; occup & rdquo ; move to a more posit relationship with israel ? on these question , the evid is unclear . the imag of palestinian weak and victim , in contrast to isra power , will not chang regardless of ani move in the west bank , and israel will still be blame . howev , there is reason to expect that among those not commit to the palestinian caus and anti - zionism , the demarc of border would reduc the hostil . nevertheless , base on a realist assess , the potenti chang in percept of israel base on the set of clear border and an end to the temporari post - 1967 & ldquo ; occup & rdquo ; should not be consid a decid factor . in summari , while the result are far from certain & ndash ; and chang the statu quo after 55 year will be difficult to accomplish , particularli in the face of intens ideolog opposit & ndash ; the greater danger to israel and zionism come from continu drift and chao . & nbsp ; the longer we allow the illus of temporari arrang to fester , the more difficult it will be to deal with the result . ■ the writer is emeritu professor of polit scienc at bar - ilan univers and presid of ngo monitor . hi latest book , menachem begin and the israel - egypt peac process : between ideolog and polit realism , wa publish by indiana univers press .