former vice presid mike penc told the jerusalem post on wednesday that the us is oblig to allow israel to defeat hama . penc spoke to the post ahead of it annual confer in new york citi on monday . penc told the post on wednesday that & ldquo ; the onli messag to our most cherish alli in thi dire hour should be , & lsquo ; america stand with israel . & rsquo ; '' & ldquo ; on octob 7 , the jewish peopl endur the deadliest attack sinc the holocaust . the unit state must give them our full support until hama ha been destroy onc and for all , & rdquo ; he state . penc ha maintain a strong relationship with israel both befor and after hi tenur as republican vice presid . he continu convey a deep commit to the us - israel allianc via action and statement . as vice presid from 2017 to 2021 , penc wa a key figur in the trump administr & rsquo ; s pro - israel polici , which includ reloc the us embassi to jerusalem and recogn isra sovereignti over the golan height . he also frequent emphas the import of the us - israel relationship in hi speech and public appear . penc ' s visit to israelaft the hama attack on israel on octob 7 , penc visit israel in januari to show solidar . he met with soldier and famili affect by the attack , state , & ldquo ; the american peopl are with you , & rdquo ; and emphas that the us will continu to support israel until the threat from hama is erad . further , he compar israel & rsquo ; s situat to the us after 9 / 11 , insist that israel deserv the same unwav support that the us receiv after those terrorist attack . penc ha also been vocal regard effort to limit israel & rsquo ; s militari action against hama by critic these attempt . he voic hi opposit to presid joe biden & rsquo ; s approach , assert that israel & rsquo ; s action should not be question , much like the us & rsquo ; s post - 9 / 11 decis should not have been . moreov , penc ha express concern over rise antisemit and pro - palestinian protest in the us , reaffirm that & ldquo ; israel & rsquo ; s caus is our caus . & rdquo ; penc & rsquo ; s commit to israel wa also evid when he suspend hi presidenti campaign at the republican jewish coalit & rsquo ; s annual leadership summit in octob 2023 . he did so to highlight that he wa against what he warn wa a rise of popul in the republican parti , in which he also emphas the need for a robust foreign polici that support israel . the confer , which will take place on june 3 in new york , promis to be of paramount import , especi given the ongo israel - hama war and the broader turmoil in the middl east . thi year & rsquo ; s gather is expect to attract diplomat , politician & ndash ; includ penc & ndash ; and busi leader , among other . & ldquo ; the theme chosen for thi year & rsquo ; s confer , follow the octob 7 massacr , is : & lsquo ; israel say thank you , & rsquo ; & rdquo ; said zvika klein , the post & rsquo ; s editor - in - chief . he ad that in recent month , & ldquo ; ten of million of reader have been visit the jerusalem post websit monthli to stay inform about what is happen in israel dure the most challeng period we have known sinc the establish of the jewish state . & rdquo ; regard the confer , he said , & ldquo ; we are excit to return to new york to meet our loyal reader and to engag in a genuin and honest convers about the incred complex realiti in israel and the us over the past year . & rdquo ; the event will featur strateg meet , allow attende to network and share idea with key figur in the jewish world . ceo inbar ashkenazi highlight thi , say that the post & ldquo ; is far more than just a media group . we are the gateway between israel and the world . & rdquo ; the confer will be live - stream on the post & rsquo ; s websit and social media channel , enabl a global audienc to particip in these critic convers . last year & rsquo ; s event attract over 1 . 6 million onlin view and featur promin isra politician , includ chairman of the nation uniti parti benni gantz and economi and industri minist nir barkat .