& nbsp ; the suprem court ha order world vision oper manag mohammad el halabi to remain in detent until at least may 19 , pend the verdict in hi trial on charg of assist hama on a varieti of front . & nbsp ; in a tuesday decis onli now be report , justic menachem mazuz said that halabi both pose a danger and wa a flight risk , which , along with the case move toward a conclus , meant the court should not releas him to hous arrest . & nbsp ; with four - and - half - year have pass sinc halabi wa indict in the beersheba district court , it is still unclear when there will be a verdict about whether he wa a humanitarian who ha been unfairli target or work with hama or both . & nbsp ; updat from halabi & rsquo ; s lawyer , maher hana , and the justic ministri have indic that close argument were schedul for march 3 . & nbsp ; howev , hana argu to mazuz that the close argument and the district court & rsquo ; s deliber and compos of the verdict could still see halabi held in detent far beyond may 19 . & nbsp ; support of halabi have also said that the prosecut at earlier stage in the case had offer a three year jail sentenc as part of a plea bargain . & nbsp ; in that light , halabi have to serv alreadi five year and remain in prison for a continu indefinit period would make littl sens sinc even a convict could lead to hi releas base on time alreadi serv . & nbsp ; mazuz respond say that motion file by hana had caus mani of the delay sinc the prosecut conclud it case back in april 2018 . & nbsp ; the suprem court justic also said that the trial had been robust includ the call of over 40 wit and a mini - trial on aspect of the evid . & nbsp ; halabi wa indict in august 2016 for allegedli use world vision as a front for smuggl $ 7 . 2 million a year to hama for buy weapon and build attack tunnel . & nbsp ; thi wa instead of be use by the humanitarian organ for food , humanitarian assist , and aid program for disabl children as earmark . & nbsp ; the indict said that world vision oper in 100 countri and employ 46 , 000 peopl , but had fallen victim to a complex hama takeov scheme led by halabi . & nbsp ; at the time , world vision deni the alleg and said it wa & ldquo ; shock & rdquo ; sinc it had regular intern and independ audit and evalu as well as a broad rang of intern control to ensur aid reach intend beneficiari . & nbsp ; ngo monitor ha file detail report to critiqu these audit as inadequ and for avoid ask tougher question about dual use item which could look innoc on paper , but which could be use by hama . & nbsp ; eventu , australia , which wa fund the world vision gaza project , cut it fund , though an audit it govern perform did not find the wrongdo allegedli uncov by the shin bet ( israel secur agenc ) . & nbsp ; despit be indict in august 2016 , it is still unclear when there will be a verdict from the beersheba district court . & nbsp ; in addit , the legal proceed themselv have been rife with irregular in restrict evid and how halabi & rsquo ; s lawyer maintain inform he learn dure the close proceed much more typic of israel & rsquo ; s militari court than what is typic in isra civilian court . & nbsp ; in april 2018 and again in juli 2020 , the high court of justic reject hana & rsquo ; s request to interven in the case to compel the prosecut to play by more standard civilian court rule .