relationship develop between israel and qatar to provid suffici fund to hama and avoid an econom collaps and war in the gaza strip could be the engin for normal between jerusalem and doha , the jerusalem post ha learn . press that in novemb , qatar reject ani immin normal with israel , sourc told the post confid that thi would like chang dure the incom biden administr & rsquo ; s term . further , they said that close coordin between israel and qatar to facilit suffici fund for hama to keep gaza & rsquo ; s weak economi from collaps will like be the key to move doha to a normal deal . iron , even as hama is commit to israel & rsquo ; s destruct and period fire rocket at isra town and citi , the strang dynam with gaza & rsquo ; s ruler could help bring a legitimaci coup for israel with the state that run the influenti al jazeera network . qatar ha long been a focal point for mani parti in the middl east and doha ha been in a diplomat and econom war with saudi arabia and other moder sunni gulf countri sinc june 2017 . in mid - decemb , palestinian author presid mahmoud abba met with qatari emir , sheikh tamim bin hamad al - thani , to tri to convinc him to host a peac confer in 2021 . the idea would be to move the convers back from the trump peac plan to the previou convent palestinian - western plan for peac . surround all these contact with qatar is the fact that the us maintain close relat , includ it key militari base in the middl east , in qatar . the combin of a us connect along with qatar & rsquo ; s abil to keep hama from start a broad war , as occur three time between 2009 - 2014 , wa part of what made israel , through the mossad , readi to deal with doha on gaza issu . thi wa in spite of jerusalem & rsquo ; s unhappi with mani of the more islamist caus and group which qatar support , includ that it ha a strong relationship with iran . with israel & rsquo ; s approv , and often with mossad director yossi cohen & rsquo ; s person involv , qatar ha period provid million of dollar in cash to hama to keep it econom situat stabl so that it will not want war . when hama grew anxiou that the payment would end in august , cohen reportedli even took an especi activ role to convinc doha to continu them , despit econom issu in qatar relat to the pandem . when attack by some on the right that the mossad and israel are serv as a middl - man to fund hama , cohen ha push back hard say that the fund are humanitarian and that complex decis are prefer to war . sourc also indic that there could be a breakthrough in unfreez relat between qatar and the saudi - led gulf state coalit as earli as next week , while trump is still in offic . statement by offici on the possibl of isra - qatari normal have to date been mix . in octob , us treasuri secretari steven mnuchin visit qatar but declin to tell the isra media anyth definit about whether qatar would be the next countri to normal tie with israel or whether the us will sell it f - 35 stealth jet . also in octob , intellig minist eli cohen told armi radio that to preserv it qualit militari edg , israel will ask the us not to sell f - 35 fighter jet to qatar . & ldquo ; for us , our region still hasn & rsquo ; t becom switzerland . israel is the most threaten countri , not onli in the middl east , but in the whole world , and as such , we need to preserv our superior , & rdquo ; he said . in mid - decemb , rabbi marc schneier , an unoffici envoy for normal with gulf state , told the post : & ldquo ; i won & rsquo ; t be content until i see qatari , saudi , omani and kuwaiti join as well . then , you will see a transform . & rdquo ; qatar is prepar for the world cup , and schneier think it is a natur fit for israel . & ldquo ; qatari are veri excit about welcom isra for the world cup , & rdquo ; he said . schneier ha work on address the need of kosher cuisin in doha . & ldquo ; in regard to the question about isra guest come to watch the game , the qatari have alreadi said that they will be allow to do so , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; but i believ that by novemb 2022 [ the start of the world cup ] , we will alreadi see relat between them and israel . & rdquo ; he also said that move forward with qatar might requir progress with the palestinian , but that thi could also be more like with the incom biden administr .