deep underground , dozen of meter beneath the surfac , in a classifi locat in the negev lie a uniqu facil store larg quantiti of fuel for emerg , n12 report on wednesday . accord to n12 ' s report , the underground fuel cach ' s goal is to provid continu oper energi for israel even dure war and in the most challeng scenario imagin . it is one of the largest fuel tank in israel and is locat in a uniqu facil in the entir middl east . mosh kaltzyn , ceo of the energi infrastructur director : `` we are distribut fuel to everi corner of the countri . we can provid fuel immedi , in a process that take onli a few hour . we have million of liter here , enough for the long term . you can be confid with the quantiti we have here . '' accord to the nation emerg author ' s attribut scenario , dure an expect war in israel , up to 48 hour of blackout , cover 60 % of the countri ' s territori , are anticip . energi backup systemestim suggest that dure combat in the northern arena , israel ' s ga facil will be shut down , and electr suppli will switch to oper on the basi of fuel and coal . the vast amount of fuel in the reservoir is expect to suffic for an extend emerg period . israel ' s backup system includ storag capabl abov and below ground throughout the countri . when need , fuel will be distribut to all energi consum in the countri - power station , ben gurion airport , and fuel station . if fuel import to israel are complet halt dure a war or extrem scenario , the electr suppli will need to be manag with these exist reserv - undoubtedli a challeng task . `` thi fuel here can last us for mani year . the temperatur throughout the year is 22 degre , which effect preserv the shelf life of the fuel , '' explain mosh elimelech , facil manag . energi minist eli cohen : `` we have energi reserv underground and abov ground , includ ga , coal , and variou fuel , and we are work to provid a responseben gu as need . the rumor of long week or month of power outag are baseless , and the likelihood of that happen is remot . ''