it wa a rough european week for isra basketbal team as hapoel tel aviv wa elimin from the eurocup by besikta and hapoel jerusalem will have to wait yet anoth week to find a way to clinch a place in the basketbal champion leagu postseason after be crush by peristeri . while hapoel holon stay aliv for a place in the bcl quarterfin with a win over promithea , the purpl & rsquo ; chanc to advanc are slim due to the point differenti gap within their round - of - 16 group . hapoel tel aviv crash out of europ after fall to besikta 94 - 89 in the eurocup quarterfin to end it continent campaign on a sour note in vilniu , lithuania . the red jump all over the turkish squad as will cum score at will while bar timor and jaylen hoard help tel aviv build up a 57 - 39 advantag at halftim . howev , besikta start to chip away at the lead with huge basket by jonah mathew , matthew mitchel and derek needham and while tomer ginat tri to keep hapoel ahead mitchel from deep and mathew from the line complet the comeback and notch the win for the visitor . cum score 28 point , hoard ad 16 point while timor and tomer ginat each score 13 point for tel aviv in the loss . mathew led besikta with 28 point , mitchel chip in with 22 point as needham score 14 point . & ldquo ; besikta open up the second half much more aggress and unfortun we fell into that let them build the momentum , & rdquo ; hapoel tel aviv coach danni franco said . & ldquo ; we play our exact game plan tri to go at specif guy and get them load with foul , but it onli work until a point . ultim , we couldn & rsquo ; t make the play we need to . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; but i guess that & rsquo ; s a price we are pay for a lot of guy kind of be out of shape or not realli in a good mood that they can come right up and stay as focus and balanc all the way through . & rdquo ; when in greecein greec , hapoel holon slip by promithea 93 - 92 in a thriller to keep aliv it slim chanc to advanc to the basketbal champion leagu quarterfin . the purpl took control of the game earli as kevin hervey , tahjer mccall and justin smith were all busi to grab a 47 - 34 lead at halftim . but cameron reynold and anthoni cowan help the host come all the way back to tie the game up at 90 - 90 with under a minut to go in regul . howev , holon coach amit sherf drew up a perfect play for a drew crawford 3 - pointer to put the visitor ahead for good to take the victori . hervey score 20 point , mccall ad 14 point and yotam hanochi score 12 point in the win . cowan score 30 point to pace promithea and reynold ad 19 point in the loss . with the win , holon ( 3 - 2 ) will have an opportun next week to punch it ticket to the quarterfin of the competit if it can defeat murcia in hungari and aek best promithea . should that not happen , the purpl & rsquo ; european adventur will come to a close . & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s a big win especi here at promithea who are a veri good team , & rdquo ; sherf said . & ldquo ; we need to win by doubl digit and while thi wa a great game for us , the loss against promithea in hungari made us have to deal with point differenti . we will go to murcia and hope that aek will be abl to defeat promithea and we can advanc from a veri tough group . & rdquo ; hervey spoke about the win . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; it wa a great game from the team . we shot well and share the ball , we had some defens laps but we did enough to win the game . & rdquo ; in hungari , hapoel jerusalem wa crush by peristeri 76 - 61 in basketbal champion leagu round - of - 16 group stage play and will now enter the final gameday next week need a win over karsiyaka to advanc to the quarterfin of the competit . the greek came out pass and control the tempo from the get - go , with joe ragland lead the way to take a 44 - 37 lead at halftim . the red tri to cut down the slim advantag , but ragland and elijah mitrou - long were too much for speedi smith and the rest of the jerusalem squad as they cruis to the victori . smith score 10 point for hapoel as jacorey william , levi randolph and khadeen carrington all score nine point in the loss . ragland score 16 point , mitrou - long ad 15 point and trevor thompson score 10 point in the win . & ldquo ; there are not a lot of thing for us to keep from thi game , & rdquo ; jerusalem coach ilia kantzouri said . & ldquo ; we didn & rsquo ; t show up on offens and there wa a lack of energi . we have to be more readi and we didn & rsquo ; t execut . we were alway late on loos ball and we have to wait anoth week not to play karsiyaka in order to advanc to the elit 8 . & rdquo ; hapoel & rsquo ; s brynton lemar reflect on the loss . & ldquo ; it wa a tough game , peristeri came readi and we were lack a littl energi and miss assign that we are normal accustom to . thi is the bcl and everi game is tough . we have to get back to our ident and i am sure we will . our goal is to get as far as we can and get to the elit 8 . & rdquo ;