the unit state call for israel to ensur account for the settler rampag against palestinian , condemn the terror attack at a west bank ga station and slam prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s announc that he plan to build 1 , 000 new home in the eli settlement . & ldquo ; account and justic should be pursu with equal rigor in all case of extremist violenc , & rdquo ; us state depart deputi spokesperson vedant patel told report in washington on wednesday after a violent three day in the west bank , spark by an idf arrest raid in jenin on monday dure which five palestinian were kill . that wa follow by a palestinian terror attack against a ga station near the eli settlement that claim four isra ' live on tuesday . settler overnight attack the nearbi palestinian town of turmu ayya set home and car ablaz . one palestinian man wa kill dure the violenc . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we strongli condemn yesterday & rsquo ; s terror attack & rdquo ; outsid eli , patel said , ad that there is & ldquo ; no justif for terror . & rdquo ; overal , he said , & ldquo ; we are deepli concern by the rise level of violenc in the west bank in recent month . & rdquo ; '' we are deepli concern by the rise level of violenc in the west bank in recent month `` & nbsp ; state depart deputi spokesperson vedant patelbut hi harshest word were for the settler attack . he welcom the idf condemn , but said that the us expect & ldquo ; the isra govern to ensur account and legal prosecut for those respons for these attack in addit to compens for lost home and properti . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; netanyahu issu a strong statement against the violent settler attack , emphas , & ldquo ; there are day when we must state what is self - evid : the state of israel is a nation of law . all citizen of israel are oblig to obey the law . & rdquo ; he specif mention that the statement appli to the west bank . netanyahu approv 1 , 000 new settler home in respons to terrorth eli attack had alreadi prompt a respons from netanyahu & rsquo ; s offic which announc israel & rsquo ; s intent to advanc plan for 1 , 000 new home eli . '' our answer to terror is to strike it hard and build our countri , & rdquo ; netanyahu & rsquo ; s offic state . netanyahu approv the move togeth with defens minist yoav gallant and financ minist bezalel smotrich , who hold a ministeri posit in the defens ministri . patel spoke out against the move . & ldquo ; unilater action such as settlement advanc will onli incit tension and undermin the prospect of a two - state solut , & rdquo ; he state . those unit would be in addit to the 4 , 560 new home the civil administr & rsquo ; s higher plan council plan to advanc when it conven later thi month . it is expect to approv the deposit of a plan for 500 new home in eli . the construct of 1 , 500 unit would more than doubl the size of the commun , which accord to the central bureau of statist had a popul of 4 , 613 in 2021 . & nbsp ; eli is locat close to 24 kilomet over the pre - 1967 line , off of rout 60 in the binyamin region . like all of the west bank settlement , former us presid donald trump & rsquo ; s peac plan drew it into the section of area c over which israel would eventu be allow to appli sovereignti . it is , howev , outsid the boundari of the secur barrier . the intern commun and the isra left hold that it is an isol settlement outsid the bloc and locat so deep into the west bank that it presenc make it more difficult to creat a viabl palestinian state in area c . the intern commun had alreadi condemn israel thi week over the intent to advanc 4 , 560 home and the amend to a 1996 govern decis that would fast - track the approv process for settler build project . separ settler famili return to the evyatar outpost in the samaria region of the west bank , a fledgl hilltop commun they voluntarili abandon two year ago after strike an agreement with the govern that the hilltop would be legal as a new settlement start with the approv for the construct of a yeshiva at the site . to date , neither the previou govern or the exist one ha kept their pledg in that regard . yesha council head shlomo ne & rsquo ; eman said of the new build announc , & ldquo ; to those who wish us harm , know that we are here to stay . terror will not defeat us . we will continu to live and flourish in the land of our ancestor . & rdquo ; while the intern attent which had at first focus on condemn the eli terror attack turn to statement against settlement build and violenc , israel & rsquo ; s ambassador to the unit nation gilad erdan call for the secur council to condemn the eli attack and hold the palestinian author account for incit terror . & ldquo ; heinou attack & rdquo ; such as what happen in eli & ldquo ; are a direct result of deliber incit by palestinian terror organ , as well as the palestinian author , which continu to financ the salari of murder and their famili through the palestinian author & rsquo ; s despic & lsquo ; pay - for - slay & rsquo ; polici & rdquo ; by which stipend are give to terrorist and their famili . thi & ldquo ; stand in clear contravent of intern law concern the financ of terror . the palestinian author & rsquo ; s continu encourag of terror is appal . & rdquo ;