contrari to most report , salim joubran , who die on march 15 , wa not the first isra - arab suprem court justic when he wa appoint in 2003 . technic , that distinct goe to abdel rahman zuabi , who receiv a temporari appoint as a suprem court justic in 1999 . howev , zuabi serv for onli nine month . joubran serv from 2003 to 2017 and finish with the rank of deputi chief justic , as well as be the first isra - arab to chair the central elect commiss . in that sens , he wa the father of the idea that a minimum of one seat should be an isra - arab . sinc then , hi seat wa fill by two other isra - arab . first georg karra , for a short term ; and now by khale kabub . in that regard , joubran convinc the jew of israel that the court & rsquo ; s ident must somewhat reflect the countri & rsquo ; s multi - religi natur , and convinc the arab of israel that partner with isra societi can be worth it and have real result . not everyth wa perfect . there wa an incid in 2012 when joubran came under attack by mani in the polit sphere when he stood for the sing of & ldquo ; hatikvah & rdquo ; dure a state ceremoni , but he clearli did not sing the word . ultim , joubran weather the storm , with mani mainstream polit and judici offici point out that as long as he stood and convey respect , that neither he , nor isra - arab soldier , could be expect to sing about jewish long to return to their homeland . orthodox former deputi chief justic elyakim rubinstein wa one of those who publicli came to joubran & rsquo ; s defens at the time , and he eulog joubran last week as one of hi close friend in the court . most of the time , though , joubran manag to stay out of and abov polit . he repres israel around the world and serv as one of it brightest light in embodi isra multicultur coexist . whenev critic tri to tear israel down as discrimin against arab , the exampl of joubran could be roll out as a stark contrast to that narr . joubran wa involv in a myriad of histor decis . he wa on the panel of three justic who reject the appeal of former presid mosh katsav , send him to prison for seven year for rape and sexual abus . likewis , he wa on the bench of five justic who reject part of the appeal of former prime minist ehud olmert , send him to jail for two plu year on variou charg of public corrupt . ever the independ thinker , joubran wa the one dissent vote on the olmert panel when four justic toss out the largest convict for olmert have allegedli request that a middl man give ni 500 , 000 to the former prime minist & rsquo ; s brother , yossi olmert . had they listen to joubran , olmert would have spent mani more year in prison . regard equal issu , he wa a consist and unabashedli liber voic whether for jew or for arab . he wrote soar opinion about justic and fair that even hi conserv critic sometim respect more than they respect quieter closet activist , who often rule liber but tri to frame themselv in technic non - activist term . in hi final case & ndash ; a 2017 rule on same - sex coupl & rsquo ; surrogaci right & ndash ; joubran said that he found it difficult to come to term with a situat in which singl peopl and same - sex coupl were block from fulfil their dream to becom parent through surrogaci agreement . he said he could not see the justic of give prefer to heterosexu parent over same - sex parent , though the court as a whole defer the issu for six month to give the knesset time to resolv legisl on the issu which it wa alreadi consid . in addit , joubran advoc religi freedom and plural for jew , often bang head with the haredi rabbin establish . regard isra - arab equal , he dissent in a major 2014 razor - thin 5 - 4 suprem court decis which kept a law in place that allow & ldquo ; accept committe & rdquo ; to vet and reject candid use vagu criteria for around 434 yishuvim ( villag ) in the negev and the galile . that law replac an earlier law previous struck down by the suprem court which explicitli permit discrimin against isra - arab in those villag . howev , joubran and three other dissent justic said that the new law would be use to achiev the same outcom and impact as the old law of discrimin against isra - arab , and possibl sometim against haredim or other minor group . thi wa even if , at face valu , the new law did not explicitli discrimin . the new brand of moder - formalist activist alli with a grow group of conserv to keep the law , but unapologet liber like joubran could not stand a law which would like caus inequ , even if there were technic reason to avoid or delay strike the law until it play out more in the real world . in 2016 , in the high court & rsquo ; s 4 - 1 decis , joubran got to vote in the major against justic noam sohlberg , invalid a 10 - year price freez and cap on legal liabil rule that wa part of prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s natur ga polici . joubran also vote 3 - 2 in the major against sohlberg and then - justic esther hayut to suspend the polici for a year while the govern would adjust the price and liabil issu . but in that same seri of rule , the suprem court affirm virtual all of the mani other aspect of the polici by a 4 - 1 major , with onli joubran dissent . thi includ empow netanyahu to overrid and circumv object of the antitrust author on the ground of nation secur . thi wa huge . the prime minist , act as hi own economi minist , could overrid the antitrust author on a question of econom use nation secur as a reason . joubran had no problem switch back to be in the minor on that issu to check what he regard as execut power overreach . critic would say that joubran harm the countri & rsquo ; s econom develop and impos hi own world view in place of the repres of the voter , netanyahu . but joubran view the court as the last line of defens of those in societi who were weaker ; and if that meant protect the antitrust author in a way that slow down econom develop , he wa at peac with that . unlik other liber justic , he wa will to say it out loud . i met joubran a number of time at confer and suprem court ceremoni , and i saw him in action countless time on the bench . there were some on the bench who struck me as have been promot up through the rank but basic remain the same as they had alway been , simpli at a higher rung within the judiciari . joubran seem to hold himself differ and think in term of hi place and the court & rsquo ; s place in histori , and tri to find the right side of histori to be on without get drag down into the technic of the moment . onc again , conserv would not like mani of hi rule but would honor hi honesti and the sens that he wa a true believ and not just play the polit of hi sector of societi . i also found him to be kind and a gentleman , with a light in an old - fashion way that is hard to captur in the social media punchi age of 2024 . a graduat of the hebrew univers of jerusalem , joubran practic privat law from 1970 until 1982 befor leav to accept an appoint to the haifa magistr & rsquo ; s court . in 1993 , he wa appoint to the haifa district court , and wa then promot to the suprem court in 2003 . at hi retir , he preach stronger commit to coexist and to integr of israel & rsquo ; s arab minor . in an age of unbridl partisanship and person ambit , joubran & rsquo ; s voic of be respect , honest , and genuin commit to the state of israel , though hi background could have given him everi excus to take an opposit path , will be miss .