israel thwart an attempt by a palestinian islam jihad ( pij ) terrorist cell to produc rocket and a launcher in the jenin refuge camp in the northern west bank in recent week , shin bet head ronen bar reveal dure a press confer on tuesday even . bar stress that tareq ezzaldin , a spokesperson for the pij who wa assassin by the idf in the gaza strip on tuesday morn , had been attempt to replic terrorist capabl in gaza to the west bank and israel . accord to bar , ezzaldin directli organ 20 terrorist cell who aim to murder isra , includ the cell who attempt to produc rocket . ezzaldin provid the cell with knowledg and fund . '' we have no intent of turn afula or shake into a target for indirect fire , '' said the shin bet chief . `` most of the activ to thwart these cell is not known to the public , but it is known to us and the risk is known to us and illustr everi day . '' ezzaldin addit recruit a number of individu from the ramallah area and provid them with fund to purchas weapon , includ a quadcopt to use in attack against isra civilian . the terrorist cell recruit by ezzaldin wa arrest , thwart the attack . bar stress that these thwart cell are just a few exampl of ezzaldin ' s `` terrorist enterpris , '' ad `` we have no intent of wait defens for threat , but are alway act on the offens against those send them , in the kasbah in nablu , as happen again thi morn , in gaza citi and anywher els in the middl east . '' '' it is import to say , the pij is an organ that is fulli fund by iran . the hand are the hand of palestinian , the voic is the voic of iran , '' ad bar . oper shield and arrow continuesbar ' s statement came dure a press confer after a meet of the secur cabinet concern oper shield and arrow , which broke out after the idf assassin three senior pij terrorist in gaza on tuesday morn . the senior terrorist assassin in the idf strike includ : ezzaldin , khalil bahitini , the command of the al - qud brigad in the northern gaza strip , and jihad ghanem , secretari of the movement ' s militari council . they were all kill almost simultan , within minut of each other , by a mix of around 40 aircraft and drone .