the war in the gaza strip is continu for it third month and isra militari casualti are mount . in an interview with the media line ' s felic friedson , the israel defens forc intern spokesman , lt .- col . jonathan conricu , discuss the short - and long - term goal of the war and say israel is pay a heavi price , but it goal remain unshaken : hama must be toppl , he say , and the hostag be held in gaza , who still includ 17 women and children , must be return . israel ha no other choic . conricu say the isra armi ha expos hundr of meter of tunnel , some of which are veri sophist . mani of the tunnel lead to home , and hous after hous is fill with weapon , explos , and rocket launcher . one possibl scenario for destroy the massiv underground citi is flood it with seawat , an option conricu didn & rsquo ; t dismiss . & ldquo ; at the end of the day , & rdquo ; he tell the media line , & ldquo ; these tunnel will hope be the undo of hama . & rdquo ; the media line : lt .- col . jonathan conricu is the intern spokesman for the israel defens forc . thank you so much for take the time to be with me here at the media line . lt .- col . conricu : thank you for have me , felic . tml : on the day that israel declar war on hama , those speak on her behalf stress that the path to victori would be a slow one , deliber and costli . now , some 68 day into the conflict , observ are amaz that rocket continu to fli into israel , and that the hama fight remain pretti lethal . what `` unexpect `` have you encount in the last two month ? lt .- col . conricu : so , we & rsquo ; ve been fight for 68 day , sinc the 7th of octob , and as we said from the begin , even befor we start ground oper in gaza in order to dismantl hama , we said that we understand and know that it is go to be a long and difficult fight , that unfortun we are go to have to pay a price in blood in order to achiev our goal , and that it will not be easi , but that our resolv is veri clear . and all of us , soldier in the idf , and offic , command , the high command , all understand that we have to dismantl hama in order for isra civilian to be abl to go home . now , we have seen hama continu to oper throughout the war , and we see that they still retain certain rocket fire and combat capabl . unfortun , yesterday we had a mass casualti event in shejaiya [ in the northern gaza strip ] where 10 isra soldier were kill from the golani brigad and our elit aerial rescu unit , our tactic air forc unit [ 669 ] . so there are still pocket of resist in northern gaza , and the fight isn & rsquo ; t over there . there are still rocket launch and there are still tunnel , and there are still terrorist there . of cours , greatli degrad , but still there . and in southern gaza , specif in khan yuni , the fight is ongo and it will take a lot of time and a lot of effort in order to dismantl hama , but we shouldn & rsquo ; t confus time and patienc with a lack of resolv . the resolv is veri clear , and we are go to defeat hama . there is no other option . tml : lt .- col . conricu , look at the bloodsh , the loss of live of your soldier , did you underestim , did the idf underestim , the power of hama ? lt .- col . conricu : i think what we can say safe is that hama ha priorit their militari capabl over everyth els , and we can see as our forc advanc and as we clear area , hous , neighborhood , and part of citi from hama terrorist after we defeat them and dismantl the enemi activ there , what we expos is hundr of mile of tunnel , hundr , almost a thousand , tunnel shaft . some of them are veri high - tech and high - level and a high finish of infrastructur . and we find hous after hous full of weapon , i , explos , rocket launcher , and anyth that hama could get their hand on . so what i think i can see is that i think it & rsquo ; s clear where hama prioriti have been . they definit have not been develop gaza , care for civilian , build civilian infrastructur , school and hospit and mosqu and road and clinic . no . it ha been in furnish themselv with tunnel and buy and smuggl weapon so that they can go on their continu jihad against israel . that will now be brought to an end . hama will be dismantl , and as our forc on the ground advanc , we uncov what hama is leav behind . we & rsquo ; re document everyth , and we & rsquo ; re also share it with the world so that everyon can see where intern aid ha gone , where it wa suppos to have gone abov ground , and where it evid end up underground in the hand of hama . tml : thi ha been go on for year , the smuggl of weapon , but do you believ the intern commun actual believ that today ? you might be say that here , and on mani other intern program , yet public opinion doesn & rsquo ; t necessarili say that they agre with the realiti on the ground . lt .- col . conricu : i think that the poll indic not quit what you say becaus i see veri solid support among [ the ] us popul , lot of sympathi toward israel , the isra govern even , and definit isra . and there & rsquo ; s a distinct between those three . and i think , accord to the poll that i & rsquo ; ve seen , an overwhelm us major , and i & rsquo ; ve seen poll of western countri as well , an overwhelm us major support israel & rsquo ; s quest to dismantl hama base on what they & rsquo ; ve seen , what hama did on octob 7th . the atroc , the murder , rape , the brutal execut , and the burn of corps and all of those atroc hama did that seem distant now . it & rsquo ; s been more than two month , but it & rsquo ; s still veri fresh in isra collect memori . peopl saw that , and peopl understand what monster israel is deal with , and therefor peopl all around the world support israel in our quest to defend ourselv . and i understand that there are certain elit , and there are editor and there are politician and peopl for whom it doesn & rsquo ; t fit with their worldview and agenda that israel should be allow to defend itself and to care for itself and for isra to live safe within their intern recogn border without fear of be under persecut , rape and murder . but that & rsquo ; s fine . they & rsquo ; ll continu to harbor their neg view , and we & rsquo ; ll continu to build our countri , defend ourselv , and defeat our enemi as we have been do sinc 1948 . tml : the unit state wa veri strong in support the israel defens forc & rsquo ; action in gaza . there is a bit of a shift . you see presid biden put on some veri strong pushback at thi point and he & rsquo ; s say that [ israel ] ha to pull back . he & rsquo ; s tell everyon [ to ] wrap it up in some form . how is thi go to impact what the idf is go to do in the come week ? what & rsquo ; s the pressur point here ? lt .- col . conricu : i don & rsquo ; t see one , and on the ground in the idf that is not the percept that we have . what i see in news event and what i see the presid say is , i stand with israel , and i support israel , and israel need to get rid of hama . those are clear word that i understand . i see a lot of journalist tri to corner the presid and get other statement out of him , but i see a presid steadfast in hi support for israel , unflinch and unmov , and i think that is tremend . that is the leadership that is so extrem import in time of war . and i see variou other import american offici , includ senior spokespeopl like [ john ] kirbi take a veri clear moral posit on what need to be done , defeat hama , bring the hostag home , and do it in such a way that it minim collater damag and damag to civilian , which is what we are do . we do listen to what our alli and friend around the world are say . we do take into account the critic that is voic , and we do tri to adapt , where applic , our tactic on the ground in order to accommod that , and of cours , we commun what we are do on the battlefield to the world , so that the world can see how we are fight , and also , veri importantli , what type of enemi we are fight . how the enemi use cynic the civilian at their so - to - say dispos that they have in gaza becaus it & rsquo ; s realli how hama look at civilian palestinian . they think of them as someth dispos that they can use , in order to get public opinion sway against israel and for hama , and in some case , it work and some peopl are call for ceas - fire , and some peopl are adopt hama & rsquo ; talk point . i think that & rsquo ; s veri unfortun , but at the end of the day , our resolv is veri clear . we understand what need to be done , and we also understand that realli , frankli , we don & rsquo ; t have a choic . if we do not defeat hama , our peopl , isra , can not go back to live safe in their home , and that is a result that is unaccept . and therefor we will continu to fight until hama is defeat and our hostag return . tml : there are still a lot of hostag left in gaza . are you closer to get ani of them out ? there were those in the idf that attempt to bring two back ; they brought two hostag bodi back , and unfortun other were kill . [ former chief of gener staff ] gadi eisenkot , hi son wa kill in that action . so what is it go to take ? is it go to be a constant race to see how you are go to get the hostag out , and yet you might lose more men in do so ? lt .- col . conricu : it is a tremend challeng . a tactic challeng . it & rsquo ; s a veri difficult mission to deal with , becaus of how cynic hama is use the hostag as bargain chip and as human shield . we have said veri clearli from the begin and continu that we are go to spare no effort in get our hostag back , even if it mean to conduct tactic oper which will put soldier at risk . it is our commit and our duti to bring our hostag back . if it can be done through diplomat mean , great . if it can not be done through diplomat mean , then we will do it in ani other way that is possibl . at the end of the day , our moral and profession oblig is to bring our peopl back . tml : what are the number current ? how mani women are be held today in gaza ? lt .- col . conricu : as far as i know , there are 135 isra still held in gaza , out of which 17 are women and children . tml : doe that includ the hostag bodi that just came back ? is it down to 134 ? lt .- col . conricu : i know 135 . that is the latest number i have base on the latest inform . tml : wa it 16 in term of women at thi moment ? lt .- col . conricu : as far as i know , we are talk about 17 women and children . i could be mistaken by one . these are move figur after all , but in ani case , the veri import thing is that hama , they themselv violat the agreement that they push so hard in order to achiev in return for a temporari ceas - fire or a paus in oper . they were suppos to return 10 live isra civilian , women or children , everi day . they fail to do so . they violat the term of the agreement , and then they also start fire . and there is a lot of specul as to whi they did that . i & rsquo ; m not go to specul about it , but a lot ha been said about it . but at the end of the day , contrari to hama claim , there are at least 17 women and children still held in hama captiv , 68 day after the war start . tml : the wall street journal just came out with a stori that you are flood the tunnel . it & rsquo ; s definit someth that ha been discuss . is there anyth that you can share about thi with the concern that it can hurt the fresh water that the gazan will need ? lt .- col . conricu : yeah , you know hama ha been dig tunnel for mani year , and we have been develop differ countermeasur and techniqu in order to deal with tunnel , both those tunnel that were dug into israel what we call terror tunnel in order to infiltr into israel , and also underground infrastructur that they have insid gaza which is realli the backbon of their combat network . i can & rsquo ; t go into detail . i can say that we are look at differ capabl and differ compon . we want to turn the tunnel from an asset that hama ha realli to a liabil and eventu to their grave , and that is our intent . we are take everyth into consider . the locat of isra who may be held captiv in certain area , and other consider ; one of them you mention . but at the end of the day , these tunnel will hope be the undo of hama . tml : look ahead , is it too earli to look ahead for an end game ? where will the palestinian peopl be left ? how will the isra border be secur ? there ha to be a strategi that is be discuss at the moment . lt .- col . conricu : i & rsquo ; m sure there is . ye , and it & rsquo ; s an import part . the idf is part of the discuss at the cabinet and govern level . we voic our input when ask , when solicit . and at the end of the day , the idf will implement the direct given by the govern . i hope , as an isra , that a good and long - term solut can be found , one that first and foremost ensur the secur and the sens of secur for isra civilian that hope soon will be abl to go back to their home , rebuild their commun . despit the heavi loss that they & rsquo ; ve sustain , despit the damag to their beauti commun , they & rsquo ; ll have the power , they & rsquo ; ll find the power . and with the help of the state and other peopl who will be help , also the resourc in order to rebuild those commun , and hope make them grow beyond what they were befor . that is realli reliant first and foremost on secur be avail and stabl for those civilian to feel safe in order to return there . and then i hope that the intern commun will see it fit to join in and help , for onc fundament chang the situat in gaza . we will free gaza of the terrorist organ that rule with an iron fist , a heavi hand , over gaza for the last 17 year , and that will be an opportun for posit , more advanc forc in the region , for nation in the region to invest in what & rsquo ; s happen and hope bring about a posit and sustain futur for gaza . i care mostli about isra civilian and our secur , but i also understand that if there & rsquo ; s prosper and stabil and educ for human valu and perhap even democraci on the other side of the border , that & rsquo ; s probabl a good thing for us as well . so i am hope that that will happen , and i & rsquo ; m hope that there will be intern partner who will see it fit to rise to the challeng and do someth good for a chang when it come to gaza . tml : what are the biggest obstacl that the idf is face now as they & rsquo ; re tri to wrap up thi war , particularli in the north ? lt .- col . conricu : yeah , i don & rsquo ; t think we & rsquo ; re quit there yet . mental , we are definit not think about wrap up . we are knee - deep in fight , and there still is a lot of heavi lift to be done . hama still ha combat capabl in southern gaza and still need to be elimin . we still need to take out the leadership , their command and control , and to dismantl and take away their militari and administr and financi capabl . so that & rsquo ; s still ahead of us . in the north , if you & rsquo ; re refer to hizbullah , then there is also a veri signific challeng . as i said befor regard gaza , i think it & rsquo ; s veri clear that we can not ask our civilian to return to their home and to be at risk of reliv the atroc of octob the 7th that happen along the gaza border . and that the secur situat need to chang . the chief of staff herzi halevi said so veri clearli when he spoke with local leader . befor we ask you to go back , befor we tell you that it & rsquo ; s safe to go back , we will make sure that it & rsquo ; s safe and that the situat on the ground will not go back to what it wa on octob the 7th . obvious , the first choic that israel [ can take ] , or the first option that we will entertain , is not the kinet militari violenc one . but if we are left with no other choic , if diplomaci fail , and other option will fail , then of cours israel will have to deal with the situat and will have to deal with the presenc of thi iranian proxi at our doorstep hundr of yard away from isra commun . that is unaccept , and it will not be the realiti after the war . let & rsquo ; s hope that peopl , nation , and institut that have an interest in the safeti of isra and the integr of the state of lebanon will interven soon enough , so as to avoid unnecessari bloodsh and destruct and the horror that a war between israel and hizbullah may entail . tml : video are circul show hama take over humanitarian aid that & rsquo ; s design for their own peopl . what can you add to that in term of what you & rsquo ; re go through in tri to get peopl to the right place , suggest where it might be a safe zone , and also the obstacl there in term of get humanitarian aid to the popul ? lt .- col . conricu : hama color are shine through , and it & rsquo ; s anoth exampl of how they have absolut no regard for palestinian civilian . they are just use them as cannon fodder , as human shield , and as pawn in their polit effort against israel . that & rsquo ; s veri cynic , but it & rsquo ; s veri obviou for anybodi who is honest enough and can see . yeah , so the true color of hama are show . it & rsquo ; s evid that they absolut have no regard for civilian , or palestinian civilian . they continu to use them as their human shield and as expend asset in their polit game against israel . we see them loot unrwa warehous . we see them take over humanitarian truck and convoy . we see them steal fuel . we see them steal food and medicin that is intend through the gener aid of the us and the help of egypt and mani other part of the intern commun they are intend for good humanitarian purpos . and mani around the world hope that it will get to their civilian address . but at the end of the day , hama ha one goal . their goal is jihad , holi war against israel . they want to annihil israel . they want to do the octob 7th massacr again and again and again , and for that aim they have no problem take humanitarian aid , with steal fuel , or with take food that is intend for palestinian children in hospit in gaza and bring underground into their tunnel for their fighter to have instead of civilian . so it & rsquo ; s abundantli clear . we & rsquo ; ve been say all along that hama abus the civilian popul . our hope is that more and more peopl around the world will see realiti and acknowledg the fact that hama is violat everyth that is suppos to be holi , and ani of the basic tenet of human . they are commit crime against human on a daili basi . and i hope , realli hope , that [ the ] un and other humanitarian organ will final come around and speak the truth about what & rsquo ; s happen in gaza and call hama out for what it is : a terrorist organ that brutal abus the civilian popul . and it is about high time that unrwa and other organ call [ out ] hama for what it is and start help us save palestinian from the horror of warfar and get them out of the battl zone , provid them with intern humanitarian aid , and make sure that it doesn & rsquo ; t go into the wrong hand of hama . tml : the clock is tick , and the famili of the hostag are deepli concern that they may not see their love one . it & rsquo ; s a big difficulti for the israel defens forc , especi now when you are push forward with possibl flood tunnel . what do you do ? how do you secur those hostag at thi moment ? lt .- col . conricu : as i said , it & rsquo ; s a veri veri sensit topic , and an extrem complex and veri challeng mission . becaus of the sensit , i can & rsquo ; t go into the exact detail of the tactic of it . what i can say is that it is a top prioriti of the idf to get all of the hostag back . we spare no effort [ in ] intellig , manpow , [ and ] resourc in locat the hostag and tri to bring them home . unfortun , one effort that we conduct a few day ago end with us onli be abl to return the bodi of hostag , but we will continu to collect intellig , devis plan , and where feasibl , execut plan in order to get the peopl back . we are awar of the situat , and i think that one thing that should be said is that for 68 day these isra have been held in inhuman condit and the red cross ha not yet found the abil or the polit will to actual go implement their mandat and visit these hostag . mani of them [ are ] women , children and civilian , but soldier have right as well under the geneva convent . all of them are entitl to a visit by the red cross to make sure that they are receiv medic help , that they are safe , and that their basic need are taken care of . that is what & rsquo ; s suppos to happen . sadli , it ha not yet happen , and it wouldn & rsquo ; t be a minut too soon onc the red cross actual get access and implement it mandat . tml : lt .- col . jonathan conricu , intern spokesman for the israel defens forc , thank you for your time . and i wish you strength . lt .- col . conricu : thank you . thank you , felic .