israel is prepar a secur and diplomat respons to the palestinian for their un resolut call on the intern court of justic to consid the illeg of israel & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; occup & rdquo ; of the west bank , prime minist yair lapid said on sunday . lapid instruct the govern to prepar a & ldquo ; secur and diplomat toolbox & rdquo ; to respond . & ldquo ; the way to resolv the conflict doe not pass through the hall of the un or other intern bodi , and the palestinian & rsquo ; move at the un will have consequ , & rdquo ; the prime minist warn . & ldquo ; the way to resolv the conflict doe not pass through the hall of the un or other intern bodi , and the palestinian & rsquo ; move at the un will have consequ . & rdquo ; isra prime minist yair lapidth un gener assembl fourth committe vote 98 - 17 on friday to ask the icj to consid whether the idf & rsquo ; s ongo presenc in judea and samaria , east jerusalem and the golan can be consid de - facto annex after 56 year . the resolut , offici propos by nicaragua becaus & ldquo ; palestin & rdquo ; is a un observ , question the statu of jerusalem , ignor jewish tie to it holiest site , the templ mount , and refer to it as al - haram al - sharif ( the nobl sanctuari ) . the resolut must be approv in anoth , full un gener assembl vote befor it goe to the hagu . ukrain support anti - israel un vote while still ask israel for militari aidukrain wa among the countri that support the icj referr while continu to ask israel for militari aid in public as well as diplomat channel . the foreign ministri plan to summon ukrainian ambassador to israel yevgen korniychuk for a reprimand . & nbsp ; a diplomat sourc in jerusalem said their issu is less with kyiv & rsquo ; s request for missil defens system and more with the lack of reciproc when israel ha vote against russia and in favor of ukrain in everi vote sinc the war began . mani european countri abstain includ bulgaria , croatia , cypru , denmark , finland , franc , greec , latvia , lichtenstein , the netherland , norway , romania , slovakia , spain , sweden , switzerland and the unit kingdom . israel , the us , canada and australia were among the nation who oppos the icj referr , as well as austria , bulgaria , the czech republ , estonia , germani , guatemala , hungari , itali , liberia , lithuania , the marshal island , micronesia , nauru and palau . in recent week , us secretari of state antoni blinken ask palestinian author mahmoud abba not to put the resolut to a vote and lobbi like - mind countri to oppos it . an icj rule is non - bind but would help codifi into intern law the palestinian insist that all that pre - 1967 territori should be within the final boundari of it futur state . thi is the second such icj referr . in 2004 , the court issu an advisori opinion against israel & rsquo ; s secur barrier , explain that it construct in east jerusalem and the west bank wa illeg . tovah lazaroff contribut to thi report .