the isra public must forc the govern to secur the releas of the four gaza captiv , said tzur goldin at the start of a three - day march to highlight their plight , includ that of hi twin brother , hadar . & ldquo ; no one in thi govern intend to bring my brother home , & rdquo ; said tzur . & ldquo ; we the public will bring them home . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; no one in thi govern intend to bring my brother home . we the public will bring them home . & rdquo ; tzur goldintzur set out on wednesday morn from the famili & rsquo ; s kfar saba home with hi father , simha , hi mother , leah , and hundr of other support . they march to rishon lezion , from where they plan to set out on thursday with an eye toward reach the erez cross at the gaza border on friday . at issu is the plight of four men : hadar goldin , oron shaul , avera mengistu and hisham al - sayad . shaul and goldin , both idf soldier , are believ to have been kill dure the 2014 gaza war , and their bodi have been held by hama . the captur boysmengistu and sayad are both isra civilian who suffer from psycholog ill , which led to their wander into gaza . mengistu enter gaza in 2014 , and hisham in 2015 . in june , hama releas a video of hisham aliv but lie in bed hook up to an oxygen mask . hama , which forcibl rule gaza , said that hisham wa ill . the goldin famili chose to set out now becaus hadar wa ambush by hama in a gaza tunnel eight year ago on august 1 . he wa 23 at the time . tzur told the marcher that the & ldquo ; biggest bluff that recent govern tell the public is that there are effort to return the captiv . there are no effort to return the captiv . & rdquo ; hi famili , tzur said , is & ldquo ; not afraid of hama . we will reach the gaza border and broadcast the messag that thi is one big bluff . & rdquo ; at issu for the goldin famili , in particular , is israel & rsquo ; s failur to link the passag of good into gaza with the releas of the captiv . at the start of the march , simha recit the prayer for a safe journey , and leah thank the particip at the end of the first day of the event . & ldquo ; we are march to bring the boy back home , & rdquo ; she said . despit her inclus messag , much of the public around the march spoke of onli goldin , shaul and mengistu . thi includ t - shirt and flag call for the return of the boy . a spokesman for the march said he had no idea whi all the public materi had not includ all four of the men . the goldin famili ha been at the forefront of the public battl for the return of the men , who are often refer to as & ldquo ; the son . & rdquo ; accord to a spokesperson for the march , they were the onli famili member present on the first day , howev , repres from other famili are like to join the march on thursday and friday .