the jerusalem center for public affair ( jcpa ) ha launch a new initi titl `` speak middl east , '' which is design specif for isra univers student . thi initi provid a uniqu opportun for young isra from variou academ background to delv into the complex of the arab and muslim world . the program target isra student , typic in their third year or beyond , who will have the chanc to learn from a distinguish faculti that includ isra diplomat , journalist , secur personnel , and even former govern offici . some of the program ' s promin figur includ jason greenblatt , a previou us envoy to the middl east , and brig . gen . yossi kuperwass , who formerli head the research divis of the israel defens forc ' intellig corp . at the program ' s inaugur , israel ' s agricultur and rural develop minist , avi dichter , stress the signific of look beyond languag acquisit . '' beyond learn the arab languag , it is essenti to understand the arab mindset , which differ from our . the student of thi new cours will have a uniqu opportun to do so with the expertis of top profession in the field . i applaud thi amaz initi , which will enabl you to repres israel honor in the arab world , '' he said . the jcpa creat the program after recogn a grow need for isra student to bridg the cultur divid with their arab neighbor . thi need becam particularli evid after the outbreak of the current war when the center activ dissemin inform to the intern commun . '' with the start of the war , the concept ha chang , and the arab languag and cultur have becom import and even essenti tool for everi isra , especi those seek to particip in israel ' s effort in the middl east , '' said middl east expert and vice presid of the jcpa aviram bellaish . '' thi is particularli necessari for analyz threat and risk in order to understand ' middl eastern think , ' to build bridg with region countri and expand the histor abraham accord , '' he ad . '' speak middl east `` offer a comprehens curriculum tailor toward isra student , which includ cours in spoken arab , diplomaci , islam studi , and intern law . workshop , field trip , and even a homestay experi with an arab famili are also incorpor . upon complet their academ special , graduat will have the opportun to join a region leadership program . the program ha attract over 40 isra student from across the countri , repres divers field such as middl eastern studi , intern relat , engin , and comput scienc . khale abu toameh , a former jerusalem post palestinian affair correspond , cours leader , and specialist in arab societi and commun , comment on the program ' s uniqu approach for isra student . & nbsp ; '' particip who join the program will meet and interact directli with isra diplomat , journalist , and comment , as well as those from the arab and muslim world . at the end of the program , they will not onli be abl to speak arab fluentli but also understand region think . & rdquo ; what is the jerusalem center for public affair ? the jerusalem center for public affair special in polici , diplomaci , and commun . sinc it incept in 1976 , the jcpa ha evolv from primarili focus on region secur , strategi , and intern law research . the center activ cultiv both overt and covert strateg partnership with key figur from arab and muslim nation and remain a pivot forc in combat bd and global antisemit