opposit member critic plan for the use of budget excess from 2023 in the knesset ' s financ committe , monday morn . nation uniti mk orit farkash - hacohen came out against roll the fund over rather than put them toward war expens , say that the countri is not econom prepar for war in the north , and that roll fund over to `` pointless `` ministri who don ' t know what to do with them doe not make sens . '' we are head for a war on the northern front when the northern front is not even includ in the budget , '' said farkash - hacohen . '' in front of our eye we have anoth pit in the budget that isn ' t calcul in our expens . the entir financ minist ' s war budget wa not complet in thi committe becaus of argument about money for kindergarten teacher in the ofek hadash [ educ reform ] program . '' '' we are talk about advanc an increas of vat by 1 % , tax our save , a budget in the black next year ; and suddenli we have an opportun in the form of excess from ministri , some of which are pointless , with coalit fund that were not cut , '' she said . as an exampl , she point to the `` 302 million shekel of excess fund to [ settlement and nation mission ] minist [ orit ] strock who doesn ' t know what to do with [ the budget ] so she roll them from year to year . '' the fund should not be automat transfer , but should be discuss so that they can be best - use for address need caus by the war , yesh atid mk vladimir beliak said in the meet . '' in what world do you live , that you are transfer 300 million shekel to struk ? '' he ask . & nbsp ; '' where do you live that you are transfer ten of million to [ region cooper minist david ] amsalem ' s ministri , where region cooper is the last thing that they have done ? '' '' let ' s talk about each shekel . thi is the first discuss sinc the budget wa pass , give us the right to address each request [ for fund ] , '' he ask . hamad amar address mosh gafniyisrael beytenu mk hamad amar address committe head unit torah judaism mk mosh gafni say that gafni had state that there would not be budget transfer if the druze villag were not ad to the compens plan . '' we are transfer a ton of money , doe anyon know what is go on in the north today ? how mani villag do not have protect ? '' he ask . budget transfer plan are `` onli look out for the good of each group in the coalit , '' he ad . knesset member also point out that the govern deficit is much higher due to the war , and that in that sens , the budget excess isn ' t realli excess , but could be put toward make the deficit smaller . financ minist smotrich defend the plan for the use of fund in a press confer held monday , say that the money is alreadi slate to roll over , and so he doe not have total flexibl when it come to where the money goe . he also said that much of the fund that is roll over will be put to good use , includ fund go to stock ' s ministri be use to build home for evacue from the north and south . eliav breuer contribut to thi report . & nbsp ;