israel ha remain offici silent regard report that a team of mossad agent were captur dure a botch oper to kidnap a hama oper in malaysia . on tuesday , the first imag of the group of 11 suspect & mdash ; 10 men and one woman & mdash ; were publish as they were brought to the court where they were charg . & nbsp ; sebela individu termasuk seorang wanita didakwa di mahkamah majistret kuala lumpur ata pertuduhan menculik seorang lelaki warga palestin bagi mendapatkan maklumat berkaitan perisian yang digunakan untuk menggodam telefon bimbit .📹 diana barka | bernama pic . twitter . com / vlecq54rhn & mdash ; bernama ( @ bernamadotcom ) octob 14 , 2022 `` the isra want to know about hi experi in comput applic develop , hama ' strength in develop softwar , member of the al - qassam brigad that he knew and their strength . '' malaysian new strait time sourc & nbsp ; the botch mossad operationth abduct - style captur of the gazan man , whose tie to hama were allegedli subject to a mossad investig , occur in kuala lumpur on septemb 28 , accord to local press . malaysian mercenari allegedli oper on behalf of the mossad drove up to two palestinian nation , who were reportedli comput program expert . they drag one into the vehicl & ndash ; warn the other to stay away & ndash ; and drove him to a secret locat , where he wa tie up and forc to answer question via a video call with isra agent , the malaysian new strait time & nbsp ; report . '' the isra want to know about hi experi in comput applic develop , hama ' strength in develop softwar , member of the al - qassam brigad that he knew and their strength , '' a sourc told the paper . malaysian secur forc freed the palestinian man and arrest the alleg mossad oper 24 hour later , as the second alleg victim lodg a report at a kuala lumpur polic station about 40 minut after the abduct . malaysia and hamason tuesday , malaysian home minist datuk seri hamzah zainudin said the govern would take action if the report were true . '' we should look into matter [ alleg ] like thi , then we will announc [ further action ] , '' he said accord to the strait time report . in 2020 , a gazan imam wa sentenc to a year in jail for smuggl fund from malaysian chariti to hama , and in 2018 a hama - affili palestinian engin from the gaza strip wa shot dead in kuala lumpur in what mani suspect wa a mossad assassin .