it quickli becam appar to ofir amir , one of the founder and produc of the supernova music festiv , that survivor of the brutal hama attack , which left hundr of festiv goer dead or wound , need help . and so , amir and other festiv produc found the nonprofit tribe of nova foundat , in order to help survivor of the festiv with their rehabilit and return to life after the attack . the foundat also work to memori those who were kill at the parti and to share their stori with the world . nearli 380 festiv particip and polic were murder on octob 7 at the tranc festiv held in southern israel near kibbutz re & rsquo ; im . countless particip were wound , and some were taken hostag to gaza . shortli after the outbreak of the attack , which began with massiv barrag of rocket from gaza , polic told the peopl at the festiv to evacu . amir recal stay a while after the evacu order to make sure that parti - goer were get out safe . he describ hi hellish experi that morn , touch on the chao caus by the hama attack , from which parti - goer struggl to escap , as terrorist came at them from multipl direct and secur forc were overrun . around 8 a . m . , amir saw emerg servic bring a bodi into the festiv site , and that is when the realiti of the situat hit him , he said . after fail to escap in a car cram with seven peopl , amir lay in a field for hour , wait for help . he wa shot , hit in both of hi leg . some of the 20 peopl hide near him kept come to check on him , risk themselv each time . in that field , amir & rsquo ; s friend , who had also been shot , succumb to hi wound . amir wa abl to help him call hi mother to say goodby . one of the thing that kept amir go , surviv those long hour wait for rescu , wa think of hi wife wait for him at home , nine month pregnant . amir & rsquo ; s daughter wa born four week later . hero on the product staffamir share stori of the heroism of other member of the festiv & rsquo ; s product staff . just after the attack , one of the produc post on social media , ask for those hide around the parti site to share their locat with him so that emerg servic and civilian rescuer could come and help them . he wa inund with thousand of messag , and wa abl to save more than 300 survivor of the parti who were hide in the area around the parti , amir share . he came back everi day for the rest of the week follow the massacr , at first rescu survivor , mani of whom were wound , and then locat bodi , said amir . there are around 3 , 600 survivor , accord to the foundat , which is still work to locat anyon who wa at the parti that day . the foundat is in touch daili with survivor and their famili , in an attempt to help them with issu that the state doe not provid enough support on . it also advoc for the famili in variou knesset and govern forum . bar , who surviv the attack , is activ in the commun that the foundat offer to those who were at the festiv . the 28 - year - old tel aviv resid came to the event as a product assist . she ha been connect to tranc music for year , and that is how she becam involv in the nova festiv , she said . a heal communitybar found the nova heal commun soon after octob 7 . & ldquo ; a few day after the parti , i got a messag from one the produc , offer us to come to a campu set up for peopl who were at the parti where they could be taken care of , & rdquo ; she rememb . & ldquo ; it wa dure a time when i realli didn & rsquo ; t want to leav my hous . i didn & rsquo ; t want to leav my bed , & rdquo ; she said . she saw there wa a concert at the campu and told a friend , who sent anoth friend who had been at the supernova festiv to bring bar to the event . & ldquo ; he liter pull me out of bed so that we would go , & rdquo ; she rememb . at the campu , she found a setup that offer a break from how difficult thing were , with perform , workshop , food , and drink for those who had been at the parti . & ldquo ; i wouldn & rsquo ; t have eaten anyth if i wasn & rsquo ; t there , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; i wasn & rsquo ; t abl to prepar food for myself , and didn & rsquo ; t want to eat anyth , & rdquo ; she said , rememb how challeng the week follow the parti were . but at the campu , where there wa food for the survivor and she wa with her friend , she found herself abl to eat . for month she came to the campu whenev she could , she said , explain that she wa not work , and wa not capabl of think about work at that time . & ldquo ; the fact that i wa abl to leav my bed wa an ad bonu ; the fact that i wa abl to drive alon wa an ad bonu . the fact that i wa outsid my hous after dark wa a miracl , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; it wa unbeliev that i wa abl to do those thing . & rdquo ; variou therapi on offerth varieti of treatment offer at the campu gave bar the chanc to find thing that made her feel better . & ldquo ; they gave us all the option of therapi and said , & lsquo ; come tri them out , & rsquo ; & rdquo ; she rememb . the atmospher at the campu wa difficult in the day and week just after octob 7 , but still made bar feel much better . & ldquo ; at first i saw friend that i hadn & rsquo ; t seen sinc the parti , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; we would cri and hug and couldn & rsquo ; t believ we were there togeth . & rdquo ; bar talk about the benefit of the workshop offer at the campu . & ldquo ; it take you out of your thought . someth that hold me back a lot is thought , & rdquo ; she explain . & ldquo ; what happen to me , how did thi happen to me , to my friend ? & ndash ; all kind of unpleas thought that come with the post - traumat reaction . & rdquo ; when you do activ and workshop , you don & rsquo ; t think of anyth , she explain . & ldquo ; you can disconnect for a minut and take thi moment with your friend and music . & rdquo ; commun and be surround by peopl who understand is also a major part of her process , bar share . & ldquo ; through convers we have , i realiz that we feel the same , & rdquo ; she said , explain the comfort in the commun of those who surviv the festiv . & ldquo ; it make the situat normal . you realiz that it isn & rsquo ; t onli you , & rdquo ; she ad . & ldquo ; we understand each other . the commun is realli strong in that sens .... we are over 3 , 000 survivor . we understand that we are togeth in thi , even if it is hard or bad . & rdquo ; they encourag each other , remind one anoth that a bad day will be follow by a better one . bar express gratitud for the foundat & rsquo ; s help with bureaucraci . & ldquo ; they brought social worker and nation insur institut repres , & rdquo ; make the institut that could help her get what she is entitl to access , she said . some author offer some benefit which the foundat help survivor access , but gener bar said that no author took upon itself to take care of the survivor . the govern wa mia , survivor say & ldquo ; the nova nonprofit ha taken it on themselv to help us , and that is someth no one els in the countri did & ndash ; i & rsquo ; m talk about govern author . no government organ took it on themselv and said that they want to help us , & rdquo ; said bar . & ldquo ; there is help for anyth , & rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; from the biggest to the smallest thing , there is someon there for us . & rdquo ; the nova nonprofit & ldquo ; deserv huge thank , and i hope thi keep go and peopl understand how import thi is , and that whoever is abl to donat to them , becaus it realli , realli help us , & rdquo ; she said . along with the activ describ by bar , the foundat also develop program for the commun of survivor , run by the commun , such as a mentorship program . & ldquo ; the best heal come from survivor help each other , & rdquo ; explain the foundat . the foundat ha a number of initi plan for the futur , includ found a center for the commun . the center would be a home to activ for the commun of survivor as well as a memori for the victim of the attack . the foundat also plan to lead , in coordin with keren kayemeth leisrael - jewish nation fund , a cleanup of the re & rsquo ; im site , the place where the massacr took place . & ldquo ; the re & rsquo ; im site is the place where our love one had their final moment , & rdquo ; said the foundat , explain that they want to & ldquo ; build a campu for famili and friend with easi access , and clean up the way the area look . & rdquo ;