resid of bethlehem & rsquo ; s three refuge camp have been launch daili protest against the palestinian author , coincid with prepar for christma celebr in bethlehem and the nearbi town of bet jala and bet sahour . some christian resid express fear that the protest in the refuge camp of dheisheh , aida and jibrin & ndash ; also known as al - azza camp & ndash ; might spread to their commun , ruin christma festiv that have alreadi been badli affect sinc the outbreak of the coronaviru in march 2020 . dure the nightli protest dure the past week , resid burn tire and block street , demand the releas of sever young men arrest by the pa secur forc . the protest began at dheisheh refuge camp after the secur forc arrest a number of young men who rais banner belong to hama and the popular front for the liber of palestin ( pflp ) dure the funer of amjad abu sultan . abu sultan , 14 , wa shot dead by idf soldier in octob as he wa prepar to throw a molotov cocktail from bet jala at isra vehicl on rout 60 , also known as the & ldquo ; tunnel road . & rdquo ; hi bodi wa hand over to the palestinian two week ago . شاهد | شبان ي ُ غلقون الشارع الرئيس المحاذي لمخيم الدهيشة في بيت لحم ، احتجاجا ً على اعتـ . قال الأجهزة الأمنية لشاب وملاحقة آخرين .. pic . twitter . com / r1m4shkdea & mdash ; jmedia ( @ jmediap ) decemb 2 , 2021 dure the funer , pa secur offic attack sever mourner who were carri hama flag and pflp banner , accord to palestinian sourc . later , the secur forc arrest sever young men from dheisheh , aida and jibrin camp who particip in the funer , on charg of assault a number of offic . on instruct from the pa leadership , the palestinian secur forc have in recent week ban palestinian from carri hama flag and banner of other palestinian group dure public event . the protest first began in dheisheh camp after the pa secur forc last week arrest moham shaheen , a teenag who particip in the funer of abu sultan . sever camp resid who were summon for interrog by the secur forc have refus to compli . أجهزة السلطة ببيت لحم تعتقل الفتى محمد شاهين من مخيم الدهيشة وتطالب آخرين بتسليم أنفسهم على أثر رفضهم واحتجاجهم لما تعرضوا له من اعتداء من ق ِ بل عناصر أمنية بزي مدني أثناء تشييع جثمان الشـ ـهيد أمجد أبو سلطان وسحلهم وإنزال رايات فصائل # لا_للاعتقال_السياسي # الاعتقال_السياسي_جريمة pic . twitter . com / n9ulnmxfy & mdash ; موقع أمامة الإخباري ( @ omamahwest ) novemb 30 , 2021 & ldquo ; what is happen in dheisheh and the other two refuge camp is a small intifada [ upris ] against the palestinian author , & rdquo ; said a palestinian journalist from bethlehem . & ldquo ; the resid of the camp are angri , becaus they feel intimid by the palestinian secur forc . the clampdown is target support of the pflp and hama . & rdquo ; a pa secur offici in bethlehem refus to comment on the alleg . the offici warn , howev , that the palestinian secur forc will continu to enforc law and order and prevent scene of anarchi and lawless in the bethlehem area . a senior offici with the rule fatah faction head by pa presid mahmoud abba accus hama and the pflp of stand behind the camp protest . & ldquo ; hama and the pflp are incit the resid of the camp against the palestinian author , & rdquo ; the offici claim . & ldquo ; thi is happen not onli in the bethlehem area , but also in other camp , especi in the area of nablu and jenin . & rdquo ; the pflp said in a statement on saturday that it hold the pa respons for the latest tension in bethlehem . the group threaten to & ldquo ; strike with an iron fist all those who harm the symbol of the pflp . & rdquo ; the bethlehem municip , meanwhil , ha begun decor manger squar and other part of the citi for christma . but some christian resid warn that the tension in the nearbi refuge camp could spread to bethlehem , bet jala and bet sahour . & ldquo ; the situat in bethlehem is veri tens , & rdquo ; said a christian businessman who own an oliv wood factori in the citi . & ldquo ; we hope that the palestinian secur forc are abl to solv the problem with the camp resid befor christma . & rdquo ; the tension in bethlehem come amid grow scene of violenc on univers campus in the west bank . on saturday , a student wa stab to death dure a brawl at the arab american univers ( aau ) near jenin . the student wa identifi as mahran khaliliyeh , 21 . hi friend claim that he wa attack by student affili with fatah . # فيديو | لحظة طعن الطالب مهران خليلية في الجامعة الأمريكية بـ # جنين ، حيث تم الاعلان عن وفاته فور وصوله للمستشفى pic . twitter . com / neeztohtxn & mdash ; وكالة شهاب للأنباء ( @ shehabag ) decemb 4 , 2021 the univers wa immedi close after the incid . a suspect later hand himself over to the pa polic in jenin . on friday , anoth fight erupt at bir zeit univers between fatah and pflp student . the univers administr announc that the campu will be close on saturday and appeal to all student to abid by the univers regul and law . the violenc erupt after a number of student group affili with hama and the pflp issu a statement condemn the pa secur forc for raid and search the univers dormitori . fatah - affili student who were unhappi with the statement reportedli beat some pflp and hama support .