the decreas in the idf & rsquo ; s pace and pressur in it oper is lengthen the conflict in the north and neg affect israel & rsquo ; s intern stand , minist gideon sa & rsquo ; ar said monday . accord to sa & rsquo ; ar , the fact that the main decis about the war are be made in the small war cabinet instead of the statutori nation secur cabinet is problemat , and he repeat hi demand to becom a part of the smaller cabinet as well . sa & rsquo ; ar , the new hope & ndash ; the unit right chairman and minist - without - portfolio made the comment dure a press confer ahead of hi parti & rsquo ; s first offici meet after split from nation uniti last week . sa & rsquo ; ar claim that when nation uniti first join the govern , he wa suppos to have been appoint to the cabinet , but he agre that nation uniti minist - without - portfolio gadi eisenkot , a former idf chief of staff , take hi spot . & ldquo ; but we should have alreadi been in a differ place , & rdquo ; sa & rsquo ; ar said . & ldquo ; we need to act at a faster pace , with more forc . we need to increas the militari pressur on hama , & rdquo ; sa & rsquo ; ar said . he also argu that the destruct of hama & rsquo ; s rule capabl wa not proceed as plan . & ldquo ; hama & rsquo ; s takeov of humanitarian aid meant for civilian strengthen it , and undermin the goal , & rdquo ; sa & rsquo ; ar said . threat to quit governmentsa & rsquo ; ar also repeat a statement from earlier thi week , that if he is not given a seat in the war cabinet , hi parti will quit the govern . even if it doe , it will not call for an elect , accord to a clarif by sa & rsquo ; ar & rsquo ; s spokesperson . a number of other parti leader held their own press confer on monday ahead of their parti & rsquo ; weekli meet . opposit leader and yesh atid chairman mk yair lapid critic what he claim wa the coalit & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; disgrac & rdquo ; attempt to wiggl it way out of a decis to draft haredi ( ultra - orthodox ) men into the idf to fill rank of casualti and meet israel & rsquo ; s heighten secur need . & ldquo ; the fact that they again are make up trick and finagl and delay is not just an affront to our soldier , it endang the state of israel , & rdquo ; lapid said . the suprem court on sunday gave the govern a small extens to march 27 to deliv it respons as to whi it wa not draft haredi men after the law that enabl the exempt expir last june . & ldquo ; if they care about secur , they need to tell the haredi parti : & lsquo ; friend , there are no more game . you need to intern that you are done get without give . whoever doe not enlist will not receiv even one worn - out agora [ a 100th of a shekel ] , & rsquo ; & rdquo ; lapid ad . yisrael beytenu head avigdor liberman said it wa no longer possibl to talk about quota for haredi men to enlist in the idf everi year , and that it wa time for a law that everi 18 - year - old will serv for three year , after which & ldquo ; they will do whatev they want , & rdquo ; liberman said . talk between haredi parti , prime minist benjamin netanyahu , defens minist yoav gallant , and financ minist bezalel smotrich have been ongo over the past few week to find a way to solv the current haredi draft crisi . the crisi began after the govern last month announc it plan to extend mandatori and reserv duti for current soldier , but without recruit soldier from a broader pool of candid , such as haredim , to lessen the burden on those who alreadi are serv . the crisi also coincid with a court case against the haredi exempt that is current underway in the suprem court . the previou law that enabl haredi exempt offici expir at the end of june 2023 , and the govern decid that it would pass a new law by the end of march 2024 . howev , with that date near , the govern doe not seem close to solv the issu , and it is like to request other extens until the end of june . govern fund for yeshiva student also stem from the law that expir , and thu if no solut is found on time , haredi men may no longer be legal entitl to an exempt , and yeshivot may lose their fund . israel hayom report on monday even that one of the possibl solut wa to rais the age of exempt for haredi men from it current 26 to somewher between 35 and 40 . thi mean that haredi men who leav their yeshiva befor that age would need to serv in the idf . the idea is that thi will allow whoever want to studi full time to continu do so , but on the other hand , it will disincentiv haredim who are not interest in studi from use their yeshiva student statu as a cover to avoid idf servic . haredi men who are yeshiva student can not legal work . some minist , such as smotrich , thought prior to octob 7 that the age of exempt should be lower to as low as 21 to enabl haredi men to join the workforc earlier without have to do idf servic first . the new idea to do the opposit and actual increas the age of exempt would be a signific conceptu shift .