hostag famili member took part in variou knesset committe ahead of the open of the parliament ' s summer session on monday under the banner `` you return from recess , the hostag haven ' t return yet , '' accord to the hostag and miss famili forum . ella ben ami , daughter of hostag ohad ben ami said in one of the committe , `` my mother , who return from captiv after 54 day , doe not know herself whether she is a widow or not , and the biggest fear is that i will miss the opportun to save my father and that my mother will have to live both the shock experi of a former hostag and be a widow without a husband to help her and strengthen her . '' i ask that in everi sentenc of your discuss today and when you go to sleep at night rememb my mother , '' she state . yarden gonen , sister of hostag romi gonen , told the member of the committe , `` i don ' t know what the solut is as wa suggest here previous but i do know that you can ' t do the same thing over and over again and expect a differ result becaus thi is not what will happen . '' mor korngold , brother of hostag tal shoham , also address a knesset committe , ask `` how can i rais my children here ? how can i say ' ye ' to reserv duti ? i went to the armi and i know that no one is left behind . '' but for eight month , everyon who sit here abandon me , the hostag , and their famili , and you sit here and speak of the most unimport subject `` he further state . '' if someth happen to the live hostag or to my brother , we will chase you , '' korngold ad . polic clash with demonstr in jerusalemin parallel , on monday , demonstr protest on highway 1 lead to jerusalem and in the capit , call for elect to be held amid the open of the knesset & rsquo ; s summer session . polic said on monday that dure the protest , demonstr block a road lead to the knesset and sat on it . forc subsequ remov them . & nbsp ; the polic ad that it had detain for question seven demonstr on suspicion that they had attempt to block the highway with vehicl and want to ignit a fire in the area . the polic further said that the suspect did not provid explan as to whi they had with them incendiari materi , wooden plank , tire etc . the polic also affirm that the seven suspect are expect to be brought to court hour after their arrest . a statement releas by the brother and sister in arm movement counter polic argument , note & ldquo ; there wa no intent to set fire to vehicl or block the road , & rdquo ; but rather the & ldquo ; vehicl in the convoy had been burn in advanc , without engin , as a symbol of the legaci of the govern . & rdquo ; the statement further affirm there had been no justifi caus for the arrest . & nbsp ; the movement also assert that the demonstr had been at the side of the road and were not block traffic . later on monday even , thousand protest outsid the knesset against the govern and call for the return of the hostag , accord to isra media report .