in hi first interview in hebrew media sinc the outbreak of war , prime minist benjamin netanyahu insinu that threat by protest against hi govern & rsquo ; s judici reform to stop serv in the idf reserv play a part in hama & rsquo ; s decis to attack israel on octob 7 . & ldquo ; the refus [ to serv ] is a disast & ndash ; and creat illus for our enemi , & rdquo ; the prime minist said dure the interview on channel 14 . netanyahu also critic current protest call for an elect . & ldquo ; i say to the protest & ndash ; get it togeth . thi is the time for uniti , thi is the time for great . their goal is to bring down the govern , and everi time their excus is differ . i do not think that it reflect a major of the peopl . i turn to the major of the peopl and say & ndash ; thi is the time for uniti , & rdquo ; the prime minist said . address the four differ warn by the idf dure the period of the judici reform that the social upheav they had creat wa a danger to nation secur , netanyahu said he himself had made similar warn in real time and did not need the idf warn to tell him that . the prime minist ad that the idf assess prior to octob 7 wa that hama wa & ldquo ; deter , and therefor he wa unawar of the threat of the massacr . netanyahu ad that while he believ that everi person who wa in a posit of author on octob 7 bare & ldquo ; some respons , & rdquo ; now wa not the time to form a nation committe of investig , sinc it would & ldquo ; add to the [ heavi ] load & rdquo ; of run the war . netanyahu critic gantz and eisenkotth prime minist also voic harsh critic of benni gantz and fellow nation uniti mk gadi eisenkot for leav the govern on june 9 , after join it day after the octob 7 massacr . gantz and eisenkot said that they had decid to depart after the prime minist began take into account person polit consider while make decis regard the war . & ldquo ; gantz and eisenkot did someth that is not done & ndash ; leav the govern in war time , & rdquo ; netanyahu said . ask about their claim , the prime minist respond , & ldquo ; and they do not have polit consider ? my consider is to ensur the safeti of israel . & rdquo ; netanyahu invit other parti current in the opposit to join the govern in gantz and eisenkot & rsquo ; s place . in an odd moment in the interview , netanyahu repeat a mislead claim that the bill to draft haredim into the idf that is current be process in the knesset foreign affair and defens committe ( fadc ) will bring & ldquo ; mani thousand & rdquo ; of haredi men into the idf . the bill , as it current stand , includ a gradual increas of haredi drafte per year , from the current 1 , 000 or so per year to approxim 35 % of each graduat class & ndash ; roughli 5 , 000 men & ndash ; per year in 2036 . the number would not rise significantli in the come year , and the sanction for haredi yeshivot that do not meet their quota are direct against the yeshivot themselv but not at the individu who avoid the draft . thi is wide regard as insuffici to lead to real chang . netanyahu said that he expect opposit leader mk yair lapid and gantz to support the bill , as it pass it first read under their govern in 2022 . howev , a signific portion of knesset member from netanyahu & rsquo ; s own likud parti , the entir opposit , and the defens ministri have all said that the law wa no longer relev to the idf & rsquo ; s need post octob 7 . netanyahu & rsquo ; s remark on the haredi bill were surpris , as mani member of the likud , includ those who have not express opposit to the bill as it current stand , have said that it wa onli a preliminari version . thi led to widespread belief that netanyahu himself wa open to a more sweep version of the bill , closer to what mani see as the bare minimum to meet the idf & rsquo ; s need & ndash ; to reach a 50 % draft rate of haredi men within five year . the haredi parti are unlik to accept such a version of the bill , and may opt to attempt to toppl the govern rather than pass it . the issu of the haredi draft is thu view as a litmu test for the prime minist & ndash ; whether he act in the nation interest or give prefer to the surviv of hi coalit . & nbsp ;