in a one - on - one interview with maayan hoffman , deputi ceo - strategi & amp ; innov for the jerusalem post , gilad ostrovski , chief forest for keren kayemeth leisrael - jewish nation fund ( kkl - jnf ) , discuss the impact that the hama - israel war ha had on the environ , and what kkl - jnf is do to minim the damag caus by the war . & ldquo ; the most sever damag ha been caus in the southwest part of the negev , and the upper galile , & rdquo ; say ostrovski , who explain that damag were caus by fire and the movement of troop , heavi truck , and tank . & nbsp ; while repair infrastructur can be done rel quickli , restor the veget , say ostrovski , is a long - term process . & ldquo ; we want to see if the tree can regener by themselv , & rdquo ; he say . & ldquo ; we usual wait for one winter to pass to see how they react to the fire and the damag to the broken tree . then we survey each speci and look at what we have , what damag have occur , and we wait a few year to replant . we prefer to let natur process occur to bring back the forest if possibl . & ndash ; so there are immedi action and some long - term action . & rdquo ; ostrovski estim that it will take a year to rebuild damag infrastructur , but the time it will take to restor the veget depend on the sever of the damag . anoth challeng that ha present itself in the restor of the forest dure the war is the fact that a number of kkl - jnf forest have been serv in the idf , therebi reduc the number of forest avail . nevertheless , he say , & ldquo ; we know we have a lot of work , but we think that we can handl it . & rdquo ; ostrovski add that isra appreci the open space and tranquil provid by the forest dure these difficult time , just as they were valu dure corona . one of the main goal of kkl - jnf , he note , is keep the forest clean and well - maintain and ensur that israel & rsquo ; s forest area remain larg enough in the face of continu develop within the countri . anoth signific issu in forestri today is climat chang . ostrovski say that kkl - jnf ha recent complet a polici paper to prepar the forest for climat chang and ensur the surviv of tree and veget . & ldquo ; our polici guidelin are primarili about prevent fire , keep the forest healthi , and make it more resili in deal with sever condit . & rdquo ;