two and a half week after the thousand of hama terrorist attack southern israel , result in a massacr that claim the live of approxim 1 , 400 peopl , israel is stuck befor an enemi that doe not fulli understand , zvi yehezk , a channel 13 & nbsp ; arab affair analyst , said dure an interview on 103fm radio . '' we are still wait for salvat , but noth ha chang , & rdquo ; yehezk said . & ldquo ; hama is still oper while we face humili from the intern commun . the releas of four hostag mean noth . it beg the question , what doe it take to crush hama ? & rdquo ; & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we are deal with an enemi we do not fulli understand , and the repercuss of the gaza situat will extend far beyond it border into judea and samaria , & rdquo ; he ad . the palestinian exist ha been shaken . after 75 year of their nakba , they have realiz that the tabl can be turn . '' accord to yehezk , the most press question is what israel should do now . '' the tactic debat of whether to enter or not need to be reevalu , & rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; i see hama function , and those respons for the failur of the past 15 year are still in leadership posit . instead , we should be ask the resid of gaza what they want . the strip need to be complet flatten , and hama must be erad . & rdquo ; & nbsp ; accord to yehezk , the armi is not equip to comprehend the palestinian . & nbsp ; & ldquo ; we have been in a state of complac , & rdquo ; he said , ad that the outcom of israel & rsquo ; s action depend on the abil of israel to fulli understand the situat . the role of iranconcern the escal tension with hezbollah , yehezk said iran is the entiti respons for the situat . & nbsp ; '' iran is the forc behind hama ; they would not have act without iranian support , & rdquo ; he highlight . & ldquo ; i have hope in biden support us , but the question is whether he will be aggress in thi matter . nasrallah will continu to provok until we stand firm . he won ' t engag in an all - out conflict , but onc they enter the strip , the situat in the north will chang . thi pose a threat that is a thousand time more danger than hama . ''