around the gaza strip , the morn of the second day of oper shield and arrow began quietli . commun were told to either go to shelter or remain close by . i drove south from jerusalem , a drive that took about an hour and a half . the polic and armi had close off some area around the strip . traffic from ashkelon wa block to sderot , as these area were expect to be under direct threat , which extend dozen of kilomet inland . when i arriv on the border , it wa still quiet , without much traffic . there are still industri oper around the border , so there are mani peopl who have to use the road . i had been in thi area mani time befor dure numer conflict over the last two decad . most of the landscap is field , and there were a few soldier who had set up a checkpoint south of ashkelon near yad mordechai and the turnoff to karmiya . i drove out toward karmiya and zikim beach until there were more roadblock . then i paus and wonder what would come next . the radio said peopl could leav their shelter . israel had carri out strike against site in khan yuni and beit lahiya . i could see smoke rise from beit lahiya . as i began to drive back toward a hill that overlook the border area , i could see streak of white smoke rise from gaza . these are the telltal sign of rocket . soon , iron dome wa at work overhead , it tamir interceptor missil fli toward the rocket . the rocket fire beginsthi wa just the open salvo of a long seri of salvo that pour missil over our head . it began at 1 : 27 p . m . and continu at 1 : 30 p . m . , 1 : 35 p . m . and everi five or 10 minut after that until a brief lull at 2 : 30 p . m . , befor restart around 3 p . m . , when more rocket were fire toward area south of tel aviv . the rocket were intercept by iron dome in dozen of intercept . each of these salvo and the interceptor head toward them could be seen from area south of ashkelon . the rocket fire wa concentr here . smoke fill the sky and slowli drift away with each round of intercept . some rocket fell in open area nearbi , and smoke rose from the field . idf air defens are seen intercept rocket fire from gaza into israel , on may 10 , 2023 ( video credit : seth j . frantzman ) insid gaza , loud boom indic that israel wa respond . the radio continu to say where the siren were sound and to encourag peopl to go to their shelter . in mani area along the road , there are no shelter , so car had to brave the road south of ashkelon with noth more to do than keep drive . the number of salvo in broad daylight took place as they have in the past . howev , stand under the missil fire from gaza and the iron dome interceptor wa still jar . there were siren in the distanc , but in some area , there are no siren , and therefor you can be stand outsid and suddenli see small bright light tail by smoke rise into the area from iron dome interceptor head to stop the missil . as the afternoon continu , it appear that islam jihad began to use it longer - rang rocket , fire them toward area in the center of the countri , such as rishon lezion , as well as other area , such as netivot . border area were spare some of the rocket , as they flew high up in the air , way abov the few resid who remain near the border . nevertheless , for mani of those work industri near the border , or live in the larger town such as sderot , there wa nowher to go . most of them are use to the situat . truck continu to go back and forth from industri area , and civilian continu to drive on the most essenti road . i drove over to the industri area south of ashkelon , where sever road stretch into the distanc , toward the sea , the rutenberg power station and zikim beach . as i drove , i could hear siren , and the radio wa say there were rocket head for ashkelon . the loud scream of iron dome interceptor grasp upward led me to look toward the coast , where the battl overhead wa take place between islam jihad rocket and iron dome . the interceptor did their work . i tri to get a better vantag point , but there were roadblock . i know thi area well becaus i & rsquo ; ve cover war here sinc 2009 & rsquo ; s oper cast lead . the name of the oper fade with time & ndash ; pillar of defens , defens edg , black belt , guardian of the wall , break dawn . it ha been two year sinc guardian began in thi same area . it wa back in 2014 that hama tri to infiltr terrorist near here in the dune near zikim . and in septemb 2014 , avera mengistu , an isra man , cross into gaza near here and is still be held by hama . i thought of those experi as i drove back toward ashkelon . the overal sens is that we & rsquo ; ve been here befor . thi time , the local author and home front were quick to encourag peopl to go into shelter , and children were mostli move from smaller border commun , while adult stay home from work in the citi . in ashkelon , the mall were close , for instanc . most of the street were quiet . most playground were empti , except one that had two kid and their father on it . the rocket had peak in the earli afternoon , and then there were sever more salvo through sunset , when rumor of a ceasefir seem to encourag islam jihad to fire wildli at citi far from gaza . israel & rsquo ; s oper against the terrorist group continu frequent , but it & rsquo ; s unclear if thi ha becom routin & ndash ; a choreograph seri of event where a ceasefir will result , but both side know the next round is soon . the radio program play as i drove back to jerusalem all seem cynic ; it wa onli a matter of time until the next round of rocket and airstrik .