on march 22 , financ minist bezalel smotrich announc that israel would be take control of 10 km . of land previous not under it author in the west bank & ndash ; the disput territori the world call the & ldquo ; west bank . & rdquo ; smotrich announc , & ldquo ; while there are those in israel and the world who seek to undermin our right over the the west bank area and the countri in gener , we are promot settlement through hard work and in a strateg manner all over the countri . & rdquo ; thi announc larg escap mainstream and even isra media but wa highlight by arab media outlet around the world . as the washington post report , & ldquo ; if israel confisc land around jerusalem , all the way to the dead sea , there will be no futur for a palestinian capit in east jerusalem , & rdquo ; said hamza zubiedat , a land right activist for the ramallah - base ma & rsquo ; an develop center . & ldquo ; thi is where a palestinian capit wa suppos to be locat , accord to the american and european talk . & rdquo ; while zubiedat & rsquo ; s reaction wasn & rsquo ; t factual accur , it speak to the palestinian object to isra expans in the west bank . the american govern strongli object to isra build in the west bank . american long - held polici wa not to state an opinion on the legal of isra settlement in the west bank . former presid donald trump chang american polici , maintain that settlement weren & rsquo ; t inconsist with intern law . current us secretari of state antoni blinken revers american polici and declar that isra settlement are inconsist with intern law . secretari blinken recent said , & ldquo ; our administr maintain a firm opposit to settlement expans , and in our judgment , thi onli weaken & ndash ; and doesn & rsquo ; t strengthen & ndash ; israel & rsquo ; s secur . & rdquo ; settlement legitimacyth isra govern maintain that settlement build is legal and encourag . isra prime minist from the left , includ david ben - gurion and yitzhak rabin , to the right , includ menachem begin and benjamin netanyahu , consid the west bank histor jewish land . it is as much part of the land of israel as tel aviv and netanya & ndash ; if not even more . the west bank are consid the heartland of histor israel . israel & rsquo ; s long histori on the land , it intrins connect to the region , and the absurd of claim that jew are prohibit to live somewher simpli becaus they & rsquo ; re jew , lend legitimaci to isra expans of settlement . no excus nor justif need to be given for isra settlement , just as none is given in respons to arab who claim jew can & rsquo ; t live in jaffa or tel aviv . the us govern and the european union ( eu ) see a larger issu in rebuild settlement than intern law . the american believ the onli solut to the isra - palestinian conflict is the two - state solut . thi plan envis an isra and a palestinian state live side by side , in peac . settlement are built on the land the global commun envis be a palestinian state . in their estim , jewish settlement forestal , and could eventu end the possibl of implement the two state solut . mani accus israel of build settlement specif to prevent the establish of a palestinian state . in 1937 , the british peel commiss offer a two - state solut , and the arab reject the idea . the arab did so again in 1947 with the unit nation partit plan . in subsequ year , the palestinian reject countless offer of autonomi or statehood if they would end the conflict by sign a peac deal with israel . never one to miss an opportun to miss an opportun , the palestinian have reject everi peac deal offer by israel . they have had plenti of chanc to establish an independ palestinian state , but their intransig ha prevent it . it seem the palestinian aren & rsquo ; t interest in their own state alongsid a jewish state , they prefer a palestinian state that take the place of the jewish state . palestinian inflex isn & rsquo ; t the onli problem plagu the two - state solut . not onli do palestinian refus to negoti peac with israel , but they also util terror as a method of obtain their polit object . contrari to a narr popularli push by western leader and media , palestinian terror isn & rsquo ; t just conduct by the extremist in palestinian societi . terror ha the support of palestinian leadership and the peopl . leader incentiv terror through program like & ldquo ; pay for slay & rdquo ; ; teacher encourag violenc by use exampl of terror in their classroom ; and societi as a whole send a clear messag by name street , school , and municip build after terrorist . palestinian expect the world to cater to their demand , revers 75 year of histori , and creat a palestinian state along the border the unit nation set in 1947 . they imagin they can refus to negoti for peac and move to terror and there won & rsquo ; t be ani consequ to their posit . their assumpt are irrat and unrealist . the palestinian have had multipl opportun to creat an independ state for themselv and have pass up on each and everi opportun for peac . their rejection ha consequ . it is time the world address palestinian honestli . instead of talk about a two - state solut and a & ldquo ; revamp & rdquo ; palestinian author , it & rsquo ; s time the world told palestinian they have given up the chanc of a state . their ador of death , violenc , and terror ha defeat their aspir for an independ state . they must give up their insist on a state & ldquo ; from the river to the sea , & rdquo ; and even in part of it , and work toward a peac negoti settlement with israel . further terror and intransig will onli make life wors for them , go forward . until the world is readi to have thi honest convers with the palestinian , they will continu to hold onto their unrealist demand and increas their terror . the writer is a certifi interfaith hospic chaplain in jerusalem and the mayor of mitzp yeriho , israel . she live with her husband and six children .