the isra militari drop leaflet accus the syrian arab armi of cooper with hezbollah and explicitli name oper work for the terrorist group on the golan height , just hour after it carri out airstrik in the area . the pamphlet were drop shortli after israel wa accus by opposit sourc of strike target belong to hezbollah & rsquo ; s so - call & ldquo ; golan file & rdquo ; near al - ba & rsquo ; ath and al - krum in the southern syrian provinc of quneitra . syria & rsquo ; s sana news agenc later confirm the strike , say : & ldquo ; zionist occup forc commit a new aggress in the southern region at dawn today , as part of their repeat aggress against the sanctiti and sovereignti of the syrian territori . & rdquo ; the sourc quot by sana ad , & ldquo ; syria affirm it right and abil to respond to these attack and curb the aggress tendenc of the occup author . & rdquo ; syrian opposit sourc said that among the target of the attack were the offic of bashar hussein , command of the reconnaiss and observ compani in the 90th brigad in the syrian arab armi . hussein wa one of the individu name on the leaflet that warn saa offic against work with hezbollah . התקיפה המיוחסת לישראל בסוריה : גורמים באופוזיציה הסורית דיווחו כי צה `` ל פיזר הבוקר עלונים בהם הזהיר מהמשך שיתוף הפעולה של צבא המדינה עם חיזבאללה . כמו כן אמרו כי היעדים שהותקפו הם בניין משרד האוצר , עמדת תצפית בתל כרום ומשרדו של מפקד פלוגת תצפיות , בשאר אל - חוסיין @ kaisos1987 pic . twitter . com / dvn5yzgs6 & mdash ; כאן חדשות ( @ kann_new ) octob 25 , 2021 the pamphlet also name jawad hashem , the son of munir shaito ( also known as haj hashem ) , who is the command of the head of the group & rsquo ; s oper on the golan , and hussein hamoush , command of the 90th brigad . pictur of the men , along with the car that were drive , were found by local resid on monday morn . the pamphlet had the eagl symbol of the 210th bashan divis that defend the area border syria . & ldquo ; to the syrian armi element . as we have mention in our previou warn , your continu collabor with hezbollah and it station in south of syria is what bring your suffer onto you , & rdquo ; the leaflet said . & ldquo ; nevertheless , some of you , such as the head of the reconnaiss unit in the 90th divis colonel bashar al hussein , doe not think twice befor sell your and the civilian soul for help hajj jawad hashem , in servic of continu the reconnaiss project of hezbollah in the area of tel kurom khan , the financi build , and other area , all the while disregard the gener interest and you own safeti . hezbollah is control you and use you secretli and publicli . still , thi doe not prevent us from reveal it dirti deed at all time and place . & rdquo ; similar pamphlet were drop in the area by the idf in may , which warn hamoush against work with the group . & ldquo ; stop cooper with the syrian and lebanes personnel of hezbollah , & rdquo ; the idf warn at the time . & ldquo ; otherwis you will have no peac of mind . we note in particular brig .- gen . hussein hamoush , command of brigad 90 . and he is among those who have sold their conscienc and their homeland at the cheapest of price in return for aid for hezbollah to camouflag their imag among their master , ignor the gener interest and your safeti . & rdquo ; israel ha repeatedli warn that it would not toler tehran & rsquo ; s effort to establish a perman militari presenc in the syrian golan , and ha admit to hundr of strike against target belong to iran and it proxi , hezbollah . the strike come a few day after prime minist naftali bennett met in sochi , russia , with presid vladimir putin , who vow that moscow wouldn & rsquo ; t hamper jerusalem & rsquo ; s freedom of action over syria . senior militari offici have confirm that there ha been no friction between the two militari , and that the deconflict mechan is work well . two week ago israel wa accus of kill madhat al - salah by sniper fire in the town of eltinah , near the villag of hadar on the golan height along the border with israel . salah had previous spent time in an isra prison due to terrorist activ , and wa consid a syrian intellig activist who wa involv in recruit sourc in israel . though israel ha been accus by foreign media of target individu work with hezbollah in syria in airstrik , it wa the first time that israel wa accus of use sniper fire against individu involv with the terror group . sinc syrian troop recaptur southern syria and return to it posit , hezbollah and iranian - back troop have deploy to the area . accord to a report by the alma research and educ center , there are 58 locat belong to the group in the southern syrian provinc of quneitra and dara & rsquo ; a . accord to the report releas last year , there are 28 locat with hezbollah forc deploy as part of the southern command unit , and anoth 30 locat where there is a presenc of cell oper under the golan project . the southern command , led by munir ali na & rsquo ; im shaiti , is the hezbollah unit in charg of southern syria whose main function is to creat a hezbollah infrastructur in the area that not onli gather intellig on the idf , but train the syrian arab armi 1st corp for war with israel . the golan project is under the command of ali mussa daqduq , with headquart in damascu and beirut . close to 30 cell with dozen of oper collect intellig on israel and militari movement are in the syrian town of hadar , quinetra and erneh . jerusalem post staff contribut to thi report .