egypt continu mediat a ceasefir between israel and palestinian islam jihad to end oper shield and arrow on wednesday , even as the latter continu a barrag of rocket toward isra citi in the south and tel aviv area . & ldquo ; the campaign still isn & rsquo ; t over , & rdquo ; prime minist benjamin netanyahu said in a statement to the media . & ldquo ; we say to the terrorist and those who sent them : we see you everywher ; you can & rsquo ; t hide . & rdquo ; howev , a senior diplomat sourc said that israel is & ldquo ; readi for a ceasefir ; we did what we need to do & rdquo ; in gaza . & ldquo ; a ceasefir will be judg onli by action and not by word , & rdquo ; anoth senior diplomat sourc said . follow over 100 idf strike and over 300 rocket attack mostli from palestinian islam jihad of gaza earlier wednesday , egypt reach out to israel to say pij want a ceasefir , the jerusalem post confirm from multipl sourc . further , top idf offici have recommend accept a ceasefir in light of major perceiv accomplish of the current oper & ndash ; though publicli the idf said it doe not comment on such issu . howev , as late as 8 : 00 p . m . , islam jihad and the idf had each unleash anoth signific round of attack against one anoth . foreign minist eli cohen confirm to kan new that a ceasefir propos wa sent by egypt and is under consider by the defens establish . the senior diplomat sourc said that egypt is the central player in ceasefir talk , despit report in arab media that qatar and the un were involv . rocket barrag launch at southern , central israelaccord to unconfirm palestinian report , 21 palestinian have been kill , with no indic yet from israel about their ident as combat or civilian . netanyahu said that no isra die dure oper shield and arrow , though there have been report of a number of injuri . earlier , around 12 : 30 p . m . , the idf initi a widespread preemptiv strike on a varieti of islam jihad rocket posit , includ some conceal from the public eye , after see intellig sign that the terror group wa get readi for a broad round of rocket attack on israel . at 11 : 45 a . m . , the idf carri out it first attack of wednesday on an islam jihad crew that wa get readi to fire rocket near the southern gaza citi of khan yuni . thi incid came after a similar incid on tuesday earli even . after these incid and along with other intellig sign , idf chief spokesman brig . gen . daniel hagri said that the idf decid instead of onli select attack rocket crew on their way to their rocket fire posit , to preemptiv attack a varieti of conceal rocket posit that intellig had previous found . at that point , hagari said that the idf & rsquo ; s rational wa that it wa better to put the jihad organ back on it heel again , rather than tri to track dozen of rocket crew onc they are alreadi out near their posit . around 1 : 00 p . m . on wednesday , the idf & rsquo ; s analysi of whi islam jihad delay strike back relat to shock that the group wa go through from a surpris attack overnight between monday and tuesday elimin three of it top leader and 10 key militari posit , follow by the idf success thwart it initi attempt to strike back , said hagari . for exampl , the idf & rsquo ; s attack on an anti - tank missil crew on tuesday even thwart an initi move to use one of it more advanc weapon against israel , as oppos to mani of it rocket , which are less precis . hagari reject ani concept that islam jihad wa success use psycholog warfar against israel by roll out it counter strike slowli . rather , the idf & rsquo ; s view would be that it ha been consist about keep islam jihad on it heel , but without get drawn into a longer fight or a larger fight with hama . idf chief - of - staff lt . gen . herzi halevi visit the south earli wednesday afternoon to person ensur that israel ' s missil defens and other defens element remain on the highest level of alert . if hama had join in in a seriou way , the conflict could have been extend longer than the multipl round israel ha had with islam jihad which have all end in less than 72 hour . but hama mostli stay out of the fight , despit some of it public statement that it would join in . the idf said on wednesday that the david sling missil defens system had also been use to shoot down a mid - rang rocket fire at tel aviv . david ' s sling & nbsp ; in 2018 , david ' s sling wa use against two missil be fire from syria , but it ha not been use oper sinc then . moreov , the idf want to emphas that thi wa the first time david ' s sling wa use in defens of tel aviv . it wa onli use on wednesday as an opportun to test it statu in a situat where there were fallback altern . along with the iron dome against short - rang rocket and the arrow defens system against long rang missil , david ' s sling is the middl element of israel ' s missil defens .