& ldquo ; palestinian renew threat to nix agreement with israel , & rdquo ; read the headlin to a stori in wednesday & rsquo ; s jerusalem post . accord to the stori by khale abu toameh , palestinian offici are threaten to rescind the oslo accord , cut off secur cooper and demand one democrat state & ndash ; instead of a two - state solut & ndash ; if israel doe not recogn an independ palestinian state with east jerusalem as it capit along the pre - 1967 line . in addit , the palestinian leadership ha decid to dispatch envoy to sever countri urg them to pressur israel , and palestinian author presid mahmoud abba is plan a visit to russia to get moscow to do the same and press israel into commit to a two - state solut . mayb , in moscow , an idea first broach in 2007 , a russian - sponsor intern confer on the middl east , will be float yet again . abu toameh & rsquo ; s stori , with a slight chang of the name of some of the offici quot insid , could have been written in 2005 , 2010 and 2015 . it is as if time ha stood still , as if the palestinian have a set diplomat menu from which they call in an order from time to time . noth ha chang . not the threat to scrap oslo , stop secur cooper with israel or lobbi the world to step up the pressur on the jewish state . one stapl on that menu that wa not mention thi time , at least not yet , wa that abba would resign , someth he ha threaten to do & ndash ; but ha fail to deliv on & ndash ; numer time in the past . what is clear from these tire threat , and the same old pattern of action & ndash ; say all sign agreement will be cancel , go to moscow , threaten to revok recognit of israel & ndash ; is that the pa ha no idea what to do next diplomat . the diplomat process ha ground to a halt , the american & ndash ; realiz that it is not go anywher right now & ndash ; have push it way down their list of prioriti , and the pa leadership ha no idea of how to further it aim . so it revert to the default option : threat . there are two problem with that option , howev . the first is that these threat have been issu so often in the past that they simpli don & rsquo ; t move anybodi . they are empti . and the second problem is that use these threat ha not work . the pa leadership ha not move ani closer to it goal by threaten to break off agreement with israel or get an intern confer conven . issu these threat may serv a domest polit need to flex a muscl from time to time , to show the home audienc that the leadership is do someth , but it is have exactli no impact on isra polici , and not do much either in term of mobil intern involv . all these threat do is demonstr that the palestinian leadership is out of idea . short of complain that israel is an apartheid state commit ethnic cleans and tri to get the intern crimin court to step in , it ha no fresh proposit to put forward . not , mind you , that the isra govern is burst with them . but it is tri to put forth a more construct approach , though other will argu that the recent announc about a plan to advanc construct of more than 3 , 000 home beyond the green line is anyth but help . even there , howev , that announc wa preced by approv of some 1 , 300 unit for palestinian in the west bank , as well as the grant of legal statu to some 4 , 000 palestinian live there & ndash ; type of & ldquo ; construct gestur & rdquo ; toward the palestinian not seen in year . thi is all part of an idea that ha taken hold in the bennett govern of & ldquo ; shrink the conflict , & rdquo ; make life for the palestinian easier , improv the econom condit in the west bank , and promot econom independ there , even while acknowledg that an overal peac settlement is nowher in the of . prime minist naftali bennett ha not taken thi idea , develop by micah goodman & ndash ; who reportedli ha bennett & rsquo ; s ear & ndash ; as far as goodman would like , but it is still someth . goodman & rsquo ; s idea is for more than just an & ldquo ; econom peac , & rdquo ; but actual for israel to give the palestinian more area to control , a direct that yair lapid could conceiv follow if / when he becom premier in august 2023 . even if bennett is not go as far as goodman might like , he is still push someth posit . the pa leadership , on the other hand , is just go back to the same slogan and the same method , vainli hope that thi time they will render a significantli differ result . they won & rsquo ; t . some new idea , new think , new approach are badli need out of ramallah . the pa need to come up with someth better than the & ldquo ; same old , same old , & rdquo ; becaus that ha proven to be a path lead nowher .