the high court of justic on thursday night issu it sensat decis endors a univers idf draft , includ the ultra - orthodox ( haredi ) popul , bring to a theoret end week of squabbl and disagr . from april 1 , although in realiti defer most enforc of the rule until august 9 , the decis larg accept the recommend of the attorney - gener & rsquo ; s offic on invok a legal univers draft across israel . as of monday , some institut or class within institut will alreadi have their fund frozen , but on a larger scale , the freez won & rsquo ; t take effect until august 9 . the high court & rsquo ; s decis could also potenti destabil prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s govern if it two haredi parti , unit torah judaism and sha , decid to exit the govern . sha chairman mk aryeh deri lambast the decis in a written statement . & ldquo ; the interim decis that the high court of justic gave to immedi halt the yeshiva fund is a mark of cain and an unpreced mistreat of torah student in the land of the jew . & ldquo ; sha will continu to fight for yeshiva student & rsquo ; right to persever in torah and will consid it next step , & rdquo ; deri ad . the degel hatorah faction in the unit torah judaism parti express outrag at the decis , warn that they would not let it pass without a respons . & ldquo ; the high court of justic and the cleric system have decid on an all - out struggl against torah scholar and torah educ , and they must prove to everyon that they & rsquo ; re in charg in thi countri , and they will also decid for us which coalit we will go to , & rdquo ; said degel hatorah . thi come week after israel & rsquo ; s sefardi chief rabbi yitzhak yosef spark controversi by threaten a mass haredi emigr from the countri if the ultra - orthodox were forc to join the armi . `` if they forc us to join the armi , we will all move abroad , '' yosef said . the high court & rsquo ; s decis should be applaud as it theoret bring to some form of closur an issu that ha rankl isra societi for mani year . the landmark rule reflect a principl stanc toward ensur that all citizen contribut to the defens of the nation , while also provid a transit period for adjust to be made . high court signal to israel that no one is exempt from dutyit send a clear messag that no individu or group should be exempt from their civic duti base on religi or cultur ground . by endors a univers draft , the court ha taken a bold step toward foster a sens of uniti and share sacrific among all sector of isra societi , at a time when the countri need it most . demograph , the question of haredi enlist will becom even more urgent as the ultra - orthodox becom the domin popul in the countri . while there are mani more stop along the journey of univers enlist in israel & rsquo ; s militari , the govern , the judiciari , and those who are will to serv , mani of whom are religi themselv and torah student , can not let themselv be held to ransom by one sector of societi that refus to contribut to the ongo surviv of the countri . israel , unlik mani countri around the world , desper requir it militari to surviv . the countri & rsquo ; s veri exist depend upon it armi , and the ongo israel - hama war prove how necessari it is . netanyahu ha manag to surviv in power despit a tumultu period , begin last year with continu protest against the govern ' s plan judici reform , an act that wa halt when hama terrorist cross the border on octob 7 . he ha sinc been deal with the ongo militari oper in gaza . it would be iron if bibi & rsquo ; s bedfellow in govern , the ultra - orthodox parti , were to do what the judici protest nor the war against hama have done and bring the govern toppl . the court & rsquo ; s rule should serv as a catalyst for meaning dialogu and engag on the issu of militari servic instead of pathet threat of emigr and polit discord . it creat an opportun for policymak , religi leader , and civil societi stakehold to come togeth and explor a peac solut to the nation servic question that israel desper need to answer . quit simpli , israel can not keep kick thi particular can down the road ani further .