prime minist benjamin netanyahu & rsquo ; s decis to dissolv israel & rsquo ; s war cabinet rais sever question about the manag of the war against hama from now on . the war cabinet , which wa also known as the & ldquo ; small cabinet , & rdquo ; wa author to make day - to - day decis regard the war while bring broader polici decis to the larger , statutori secur cabinet . in respons to a queri by the jerusalem post , a spokesperson for the prime minist & rsquo ; s offic said that the secur cabinet will now be conven at a higher frequenc . in addit , netanyahu will hold ad - hoc & ldquo ; secur consult & rdquo ; on specif matter when necessari . the spokesperson did not answer a number of follow - up question , includ what the divis of respons will be between the secur cabinet and these & ldquo ; consult . & rdquo ; furthermor , the spokesperson did not address the statutori statu of these consult , such as whether they will be transcrib in an offici protocol like the now - defunct war cabinet did . they also did not specifi who would particip in these consult . the deliber will like serv two purpos : the first will be to avoid have to conven the secur cabinet over minor decis , and the second will be to keep sensit inform away from the far right minist itamar ben - gvir and bezalel smotrich . both ben - gvir and smotrich , who are both member of the secur cabinet but were not appoint to the war cabinet , repeatedli critic the latter sinc it found for polici that they believ were not aggress enough . in addit , mani leak emerg from the secur cabinet dure the month of the war , with ben - gvir believ to be the sourc of mani of these . ben - gvir , smotrich ' s threat were feltthi led the prime minist to avoid includ them in certain decis or reveal specif inform . for exampl , accord to ben - gvir , netanyahu refus to show him a draft of israel & rsquo ; s latest propos for a ceasefir and hostag deal with hama . still , accord to mk benni gantz and gadi eisenkot of the nation uniti parti , who , until recent , were member of the war cabinet , the presenc of ben - gvir & rsquo ; s and smotrich & rsquo ; s threat to leav the govern over what they deem were unaccept concess to hama , wa felt tangibl in the room . gantz and eisenkot said that at one point , netanyahu limit the mandat given to israel & rsquo ; s negoti team without updat them due to pressur from smotrich . both ben - gvir and smotrich demand to be part of the war cabinet onc gantz and eisenkot left the govern last week . howev , instead of conced to their request , netanyahu opt to dissolv the war cabinet complet . nevertheless , it is clear that ben - gvir and smotrich will now enjoy even more influenc over secur decis given that the secur cabinet will conven more frequent . in interview with foreign media in recent month , netanyahu repeatedli distanc himself from incendiari comment made by ben - gvir and smotrich and member of their parti , such as call for a & ldquo ; voluntari emigr & rdquo ; of gaza & rsquo ; s popul or build isra settlement in the gaza strip . inde , the prime minist repeatedli argu that all minist were free to voic their opinion as they saw fit but that the decis and polici were decid on onli in the war cabinet . with the war cabinet now gone , the prime minist will like find it more difficult to make thi argument . perhap more significantli , israel made the same argument in the case made against it in both the intern court of justic and the intern crimin court at the hagu . becaus accord to isra repres , statement made by ben - gvir , smotrich , and other were not indic of offici polici , sinc formal isra polici were decid upon within israel & rsquo ; s war cabinet . with the war cabinet gone , remark by ben - gvir and smotrich could carri more weight and may veri possibl neg affect the ongo case against israel . & nbsp ;