a group of isra illustr creat a virtual exhibit and webinar in memori of the children lost in both gaza and israel dure israel ' s war against hama . the exhibit and webinar were initi creat in 2021 after oper guardian of the wall . & nbsp ; the galleri wa initi by the parent circl - famili forum ( pcff ) and is host through the american friend of the parent circl , which work to educ the american public about the isra - palestinian conflict . & nbsp ; the exhibit is intend to draw focu on the children live through war and to commemor the innoc who lost their live . rememb the children amid the israel - hama war & nbsp ; the illustr use in the film were taken from the 2021 exhibit , in memori of 68 isra and palestinian children who lost their live in the war that year . & nbsp ; '' everi illustr is in memori of a differ child , '' said yuval rahamim , co - ceo of the pcff . the video creat is not intend to take a stanc on the war , such as a ceasefir or hostag releas . instead , it is intend to shed light on the complex of the situat and to remind peopl , from all side , of the innoc children who are drawn into the conflict against their will . & nbsp ; driven to extrem `` in wartim , we are driven to extrem . we view thing as either black or white , but when do so , we may easili forget to hold onto human , '' said rahamim . `` children remind us of our duti to remain human becaus they are innoc . they are victim of war . we must ask ourselv if we should be justifi act that are harm children for the sake of war . '' the video exhibit wa creat to mark intern children ' s day on novemb 20 . video for intern children ' s day by the isra palestinian bereav famili for peac ( credit : parent circl - famili forum ) . it express the thought of both palestinian and isra children who were particip in the 2023 joint pcff summer camp that aim to bring the two group togeth . & nbsp ; '' the artwork [ made by adult artist ] & nbsp ; illustr the impact of the war on the young soul , '' said robi damelin , spokesperson and director of intern relat for the pcff . '' thi is the call to save all children and to spare them from the horror of the war , '' damelin conclud .