the nablu - base lion & rsquo ; den arm group ha manag to recruit new member who are respons for the resumpt of the group & rsquo ; s attack on the idf , palestinian sourc confirm on wednesday . the number of lion & rsquo ; den gunmen current stand at 40 to 50 , the sourc claim , ad that some of the new member were from surround refuge camp and villag . earlier thi month , the group , which is base in the old citi of nablu , held a joint ralli with gunmen belong to the balata battalion from the nearbi balata refuge camp . member of the two group said in recent interview that they have decid to increas cooper between them . send a messageth ralli , attend by dozen of gunmen from the two group , aim to send a messag to both israel and the palestinian author that , contrari to claim in some media outlet , the lion & rsquo ; den ha not ceas to exist . the show of forc wa the first of it kind sinc isra secur forc kill a number of lion & rsquo ; den command , includ wade al - houh , sever week ago . sever member of the group have sinc turn themselv into the palestinian secur forc for fear of be arrest or kill by the idf . the lion & rsquo ; den claim respons for three shoot attack against idf soldier and instal in the nablu area over the past 48 hour . in the past , the group took credit for similar attack . a senior palestinian author offici , meanwhil , deni that some of the gunmen who surrend to the palestinian secur forc have been releas . & ldquo ; they are still stay with us , & rdquo ; the offici told the jerusalem post , refer to the gunmen . & ldquo ; they & rsquo ; re not allow to leav the [ secur ] instal . & rdquo ; among those held by the palestinian secur forc are mahmoud al - banna , moham tabanja , moham yaish , emad ja & rsquo ; ara and bara & rsquo ; izhiman & ndash ; all senior member of the lion & rsquo ; den . one of the founder and funder of the lion & rsquo ; den , mosab shtayyeh , who wa arrest by palestinian intellig offic in septemb , also remain in detent in a palestinian secur facil in jericho . wave of violent proteststh arrest spark a wave of violent protest in nablu and one palestinian wa kill dure arm clash between palestinian policemen and rioter . but the sourc told the post that one lion & rsquo ; s den member who reportedli surrend to the palestinian secur forc wa seen last week in the old citi of nablu . they identifi the man as mahmoud abu kay , a former intellig offic who had reportedli join the lion & rsquo ; den . other sourc claim abu kay wa actual sent by the palestinian secur forc to & ldquo ; infiltr & rdquo ; the arm group and bring about it downfal , and that & rsquo ; s whi he wasizhiman , one of the lion & rsquo ; den gunmen , wa arrest last week by palestinian secur offic while receiv treatment at the special arab hospit in nablu . izhiman , who is want by isra secur author for hi involv in terror , wa injur last week dure an arm clash with idf troop in nablu . he wa still receiv medic treatment when offic from the palestinian gener intellig raid the hospit and took him into custodi . he is current be held in the jnaid prison in nablu . two other lion & rsquo ; den member , tayseer al - kharraz and ikrimah khamash , who were serious injur dure the idf raid in which al - houh wa kill , also remain in a local hospit . & ldquo ; the isra think that kill or arrest some member of the group would put an end to the lion & rsquo ; den , & rdquo ; a veteran palestinian activist in nablu told the post . the activist , who said he wa a former member of al - aqsa martyr brigad , the arm group of the rule fatah faction , said : & ldquo ; they ( israel ) don & rsquo ; t know that the group ha becom so popular among our peopl that there will alway be mani young peopl readi to join . look what happen with the al - aqsa martyr brigad . how mani time have we been told in the past 22 year that the group wa finish becaus israel kill or arrest most of it leader ? & nbsp ; today , the al - aqsa martyr brigad is veri power and ha a strong presenc in the west bank becaus the new gener ha kept it aliv . & rdquo ;