the suprem court on thursday dismiss the petit file by human right organ on behalf of the parent of iyad al - halak , who wa kill by an isra polic offic four year ago in jerusalem & rsquo ; s old cityth petit wa against the decis of the polic investig depart and the state attorney & rsquo ; s offic not to appeal the jerusalem district court & rsquo ; s rule that acquit the border polic offic who kill halak in may 2020 . accord to the investig , halak , 32 , wa walk to the special need school where he both work and studi . he notic two polic offic shout and run toward him and immedi ran off . polic gave chase and fire two shot in halak & rsquo ; s direct . he kept run and eventu went into a nearbi shed , where anoth offic open fire and wound him . a third offic reportedli shot halak while he wa lie on the ground , kill him instantli . follow a polic investig in octob 2020 , the offic who shot halak dead wa charg with manslaught , which adalah , an arab minor right group , say almost never occur . howev , the offic wa acquit on all charg in juli 2023 . the offic & rsquo ; s claim of & ldquo ; perceiv self - defens & rdquo ; wa accept by the court as legitim . follow the rule , adalah and the meezan organ for human right ( nazareth ) file a petit on behalf of halak & rsquo ; s parent , claim that the decis wa extrem unreason and warrant suprem court review . & nbsp ; set a new precedentth petit argu that the court & rsquo ; s rule set new legal norm , and fail to challeng them would have signific legal consequ . accord to the petit , the decis effect lower the threshold for the justifi use of lethal forc by polic offic , which could virtual elimin all crimin account in case where palestinian are kill by law enforc . in addit , the petit argu that the judgment unreason expand the paramet of self - defens in crimin law , reli sole on the offic & rsquo ; s subject percept of danger . the suprem court review the argument and reject the need for an appeal . justic david mintz , khale kabub , and ruth ronnen hand down the judgment unanim . most case in the suprem court are overseen by three of the 15 sit justic , with onli major case receiv the full attent of the court . the suprem court said that there wa no basi for judici interfer and that it would onli do so in highli except and exceedingli rare case . the court reject argument that the polic or the state attorney & rsquo ; s offic had been influenc by outsid factor . the court also dismiss the petit & rsquo ; s assert that it would set a legal preced .