Knesset member Hanoch Milwidsky ( Likud ) was interviewed on Monday on 103FM and said that the haredi draft law as currently written won ' t be able to pass a vote in the Knesset . " I do not believe that the government ' s current [ version of the law ] as published is the law that will ultimately pass . I didn ' t write it . Moreover , no one consulted me before they wrote it ," he clarified . Milwidsky argued that he would oppose the law in its current form : " In my opinion , this draft as it is currently presented is not something that can pass in the Knesset ." He opposed raising the exemption age : " No , in my opinion , the exemption age should be 21 ." Who opposes the haredi draft law ? He added on the subject : " The issue is not whether I will vote for it . As a Likud Knesset member , like me , there are many who do not feel comfortable with this draft ... Therefore , I think there is no real possibility that this draft in this version will come to a vote and pass in the Knesset . The one I would expect to hear a clear statement from on these issues is the defense minister ; he may know more than anyone else about the needs [ of the army ]." In addition , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is not expected to give up on the attempt to pass the conscription law in its current form , as reported this morning on KAN Reshet Bet . Netanyahu also sent a message to his colleagues in the Likud who are uncomfortable with the issue , stating that without passing the law , the government will not be able to continue for much longer . National Unity leader Benny Gantz addressed the controversy surrounding the new haredi draft law , threatening that if the law passes , he and his party members will not be able to continue being part of the government ." The people will not tolerate it , the Knesset will not be able to vote in favor of it , and my associates and I cannot be part of this emergency government if this law passes ," he said in his announcement ." Passing such a law would be crossing a red line during normal times , and during the war , it ' s like flying a black flag over it ," he added , " we will not be able to look in the eyes of fighters within our borders and beyond them , and ask them to extend their service ."