( JTA ) - The musician Jonny Greenwood was pushing back on critics who said he should abandon a plan to tour with an Israeli collaborator because of the Israel - Hamas war . Greenwood and Dudu Tassa , an Israeli rock star from a prominent Mizrahi musical family , were scheduled to perform together on the European festival circuit this summer , a year after they released a joint record that featured singers from across the Middle East . Some of the dates were rescheduled after the pair canceled shows in the immediate wake of Hamas & rsquo ; October 7 attack on Israel . The performances are drawing criticism amid widespread anti - Israel sentiment in the arts and in Europe , and Greenwood has faced calls to cancel . In a statement posted to social media on Tuesday , he said he would do no such thing - and said that calls to silence Israeli artists are counterproductive .& ldquo ; Others choose to believe this kind of project is unjustifiable and are urging the silence of this - or any - artistic effort made by Israeli Jews ,& rdquo ; Greenwood wrote . & ldquo ; But I can & rsquo ; t join that call : The silencing of Israeli film makers / musicians / dancers when their work tours abroad - especially when it & rsquo ; s at the urging of their fellow western filmmakers / musicians / artists - feels unprogressive to me , not least because these people that are invariably the most progressive members of any society .& rdquo ; Greenwood & rsquo ; s relationship to Israel is long . He is married to Israeli visual artist Sharona Katan , who has said the family identifies as Jewish , and recorded guitar on albums by Tassa and fellow Israeli Shye Ben Tzur before making the album with Tassa . Both artists opened for Radiohead on some tour dates in 2017 . Music unites against boycottsTassa is the grandson of Daoud Al - Kuwaity , one of the most famous Iraqi composers of the 20th century who emigrated to Israel in 1951 . In his statement , Greenwood notes that the songs of Al - Kuwaity and his brother Saleh & ldquo ; are still staples of Arab - wide radio stations - though sadly their heritage as Jews is never mentioned .& rdquo ; Radiohead , which won several Grammy Awards and sold millions of records since the 1990s , have been the targets of the boycott , divestment and sanctions movement against Israel , especially in the lead - up to their 2017 concert in Tel Aviv . In response , lead singer Thom Yorke called BDS protesters & ldquo ; offensive & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; patronizing ,& rdquo ; adding , & ldquo ; The person who knows most about these things is Jonny .& rdquo ; In an Instagram post this week , Tassa called Greenwood & ldquo ; an amazing person who is always willing to take risks for peace and justice & rdquo ; and a dear friend .& ldquo ; Our desire and choice as musicians from different backgrounds ( he is an English rocker and I am a Jewish - Israeli who absorbed roots of Arab culture ) have always been and will continue to be , to strive to understand the & lsquo ; other ,& rsquo ; to get to know him and to introduce him to us through the language of music - completely the opposite of fostering a one - sided discourse of boycotts and threats ,& rdquo ; Tassa wrote .& ldquo ; The truth is that the boycotters and condemners do not promote anything - just more hatred ,& rdquo ; he added . & ldquo ; I hope and wish that together our performance will unite and connect people from different backgrounds and be part of a small step towards a better future .& rdquo ; Greenwood did not explicitly mention the war , the Palestinians or Gaza in his statement , angering some of his critics . But he acknowledged that his planned performances with Tassa come at a difficult time .& ldquo ; No art is as & lsquo ; important & rsquo ; as stopping all the death and suffering around us . How can it be ? But doing nothing seems a worse option ,& rdquo ; he wrote . & ldquo ; And silencing Israeli artists for being born Jewish in Israel doesn & rsquo ; t seem like any way to reach an understanding between the two sides of this apparently endless conflict .& rdquo ;