National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir ' s announcement on Monday regarding his choice of Israel & rsquo ; s next police chief , Avshalom Peled , served not just as a general announcement , but also as a warning to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu that he could act to topple the government if Israel agrees to concessions in a hostage deal that Ben - Gvir opposes . Ben - Gvir ' s announcement was not brought for approval to minister Benny Gantz ' s National Unity party , which responded on Monday evening that it expected Netanyahu to respect a coalition agreement giving it veto power over major appointments . The fact that Ben - Gvir made the announcement without taking Gantz into account plants the excuse to leave the government if Gantz applies his veto . This connects directly to a threat from Ben - Gvir earlier on Monday , in a post on X , that if Netanyahu ends Israel ' s war against Hamas without an extensive attack on Hamas in Rafah , he will & ldquo ; cease to have a mandate to serve as prime minister .& rdquo ; In other words , the timing of the police chief appointment wasn & rsquo ; t a coincidence , but a reminder of Ben - Gvir & rsquo ; s leverage over Netanyahu . In order to dissolve the 120 - member Knesset and force an election , 61 MKs must support its dissolution . The departure of Ben - Gvir & rsquo ; s six seats in itself is not enough to bring down the 72 seat governing coalition , but it will give Gantz the power to bring down the government in the near future by leaving with his eight seats . Ben - Gvir is hovering around the 10 - seat mark in most polls , and he thus stands to gain from an election . But in order not to receive blame for the rise of a possible centrist government , he needs to be able to explain to his voters why he decided to leave . Inaction on Rafah coupled with an inability to move forward with his choice of commissioner would serve as an adequate reason . Unilaterally announcing Peled as his choice for police chief may be a relatively empty threat , as it first must receive the approval of Israel & rsquo ; s Advisory Committee on Senior Civil Service Appointments . This committee usually approves the candidates brought before it , but in Peled & rsquo ; s case , it may not . Peled engaged in illegal quid - pro - quoThe Police Investigations Department recommended in 2015 that he not be promoted after a recording revealed that he engaged in a seemingly illegal quid - pro - quo with a local authority leader . Peled wasn & rsquo ; t indicted after the recording was disqualified as evidence due to privacy - related infractions . Then - police chief Roni Alsheich ignored the recommendation and promoted Peled , but the advisory committee may not . Still , Ben - Gvir & rsquo ; s announcement and National Unity & rsquo ; s subsequent response that it expected Netanyahu to respect its veto power , if it chooses to use it , upped the pressure on the prime minister to appease Ben - Gvir by other means to keep the national security minister on board . The move was typical of Ben - Gvir , who , on a number of occasions , has threatened to leave the government unless he receives certain concessions . For example , Ben - Gvir threatened to jump ship when Netanyahu was about to announce a freeze on the judicial reforms just over a year ago , following mass protests and strikes . Netanyahu convinced him to stay despite the freeze by agreeing to a government decision to begin the process of forming a National Guard , which was a major policy goal for Ben - Gvir . This time around , Ben - Gvir may condition remaining in the government after a hostage deal on a commitment from Netanyahu to push through Peled & rsquo ; s appointment regardless of the National Unity veto . If Peled & rsquo ; s candidacy is struck down , Ben - Gvir will likely demand something else . For most of 2023 , Ben - Gvir was considered a loose cannon and the largest potential threat to Netanyahu & rsquo ; s government . But with haredi parties taking over in recent months as the major political threat due to the issue of haredi national service , Ben - Gvir made his presence felt and reminded the prime minister that he must be taken into account as well .& nbsp ;