A man in his 70s ran over protesters blocking a road , wounding three of them mildly to moderately , in the latest violent incident coming amid increased vitriol from public figures against the Gaza hostage protesters . Dror Salay , who arrived at the protest and was present during the incident , said in a conversation on 103FM : " It looked like a hit - and - run , it seemed like he intentionally hit her ."" I was part of a protest march for the hostages , and ... I saw a jeep with a driver confronting the protesters . What I saw was that the protesters gave him space so he could drive . And then , to my astonishment , instead of driving slowly , he accelerated to top speed while veering the car to hit an elderly woman standing in front of him ." דריסת המפגינים בתל אביב : מתיעוד נוסף ניתן לראות את הנהג מאיץ , דורס מפגינים , לאחר מכן מנסה לברוח , דורס מפגינים נוספים ובורח מהזירה . pic . twitter . com / 5nk5r4IbHf & mdash ; Yollan Cohen יולן כהן (@ yollancohen ) April 6 , 2024He added : " It seemed like he aimed at her ... He hit an elderly woman who was thrown onto the engine hood and then fell on the street . She was hurt , wounding her head and breaking her teeth . He also hit other protesters and fled the scene . The police arrested him , and he continued to curse and even tried to spit on the protesters ." Fueled by conspiracy theories and incitement from the RightDuring the conversation , Salay referenced the incitement heard recently from public figures on the Right . " After the incitement devoid of responsibility that we are seeing , including from ministers in the government against the protesters , using strange conspiracy theories and harsh expressions , this is the result . These people are incited ," he said ." This person seems to watch Channel 14 often ; I saw a completely incited person . Full of anger and hatred , showing extremist views , they are convinced of things that do not make sense . Fanatics and crazies will always exist , but it looks different when these fanatics are in the government . This is an attempted murder , nothing else ." The attorney of the suspect in the alleged hit - and - run , Roy Keren , said : " The case is sad and tragic ... This was not an intentional hit - and - run ; apparently , a mechanical malfunction in the electric vehicle caused it to accelerate without the driver ' s ability to stop the vehicle immediately while doing everything possible to avoid hitting the protesters ."