Hamas fired a massive barrage of rockets at central Israel throughout the day Tuesday , setting off alarms in dozens of communities and cities around Tel Aviv , in the Negev , in the northern West Bank , and in the Gaza border area . There were hits in Alfei Menashe and Holon , with three people moderately wounded . The barrage indicates that Hamas continues to possess long - range rockets , 18 days into the war . IDF Chief of Staff Lt .- Gen . Herzi Halevi addressed the nation from the southern border : & ldquo ; I want to be clear , we are ready to invade ,& rdquo ; he declared , as the IDF continued to weigh the timing of the ground war in coordination with the political echelon . Expanding on the delay , which has puzzled some , Halevi said , & ldquo ; At this stage , there are tactical and strategic factors that are allowing us more time to improve and to exploit every minute to be more ready .& rdquo ; In contrast , & ldquo ; with every minute that passes for the other side , we are attacking the enemy more , killing their fighters , killing their commanders , destroying their infrastructure , and collecting more intelligence for the next moves .& rdquo ; Continued rocket barrages toward IsraelThe North was hit as well with rocket barrages on Tuesday , as Hezbollah fired an anti - tank missile at the border community of Shtula , and fired on Elkosh . An IDF UAV struck two terrorist cells that carried out rocket and mortar shell launches toward IDF posts , as well as a cell threatening Mount Dov . Israel continued to strike at Hamas targets in Gaza , including heavy hits in the northern part of the Strip , in the Shati camp , Shejaia , Jabalya , and other areas . IDF Spokesman Brig .- Gen . Daniel Hagari added that the military continues to warn Gazans to emigrate to and remain in southern Gaza , where they can access humanitarian aid . Israel also dropped more leaflets over Gaza & ldquo ; urging Palestinians to give them information about hostages being held by Hamas and offering them protection and a reward ,& rdquo ; Reuters noted . The IDF added on Tuesday night that it attacked a terrorist frogman cell attempting to cross into Israeli territory by sea . Meanwhile , it continues to prepare for the expected ground incursion , which includes preparing as many units as are needed with training refresher courses in urban combat as well as general training for reservists . So far , 300 , 000 reservists have been called up since the war began . While Hezbollah has deployed anti - tank missiles , rockets , mortars , drones , and small arms to threaten Israel , the IDF has continued to eliminate terrorist squads attempting to infiltrate . The IDF said five cells were eliminated on Monday and more were taken out Tuesday afternoon . The Alma Research and Education Center noted that & ldquo ; since the start of the war in the northern arena , there have been two infiltration attempts , 200 rocket and mortar launches , and 30 ATGM [ anti - tank missile ] attacks & rdquo ; from Lebanon . Across the region , Iranian - backed proxies used drones to attack US forces in Iraq and Syria . The Houthis in Yemen , backed by Iran , have used drones as well . The IDF said , & ldquo ; During combined operational activities , IDF tanks , helicopters , and artillery struck anti - tank missile launchers and observation posts in which Hamas terrorist operatives were located . Simultaneously , IAF helicopters and fighter jets struck terrorist infrastructure located in a multi - story building , as well as additional anti - tank infrastructure . Striking terror outpostsIn Gaza , the IDF killed a number of Hamas terrorists in at least 400 strikes against terrorist targets overnight , in addition to the 320 it struck between Sunday and Monday . The overall number of airstrikes has not been released , but it is likely approaching 10 , 000 . French President Emmanuel Macron visited Israel on Tuesday , as the US continued to bolster forces in the region , amid reports that Israel was cautioned against a ground operation taking place without a plan for the day after , as well as reports that the US is concerned about a wider regional conflagration . Overall , threats from Iran have been reduced in Iranian official media and rhetoric over Sunday to Tuesday . While Hezbollah continues to regularly list casualties , it also appears to have slightly reduced its attacks ; it may have lost as many as 30 terrorists since October 7 .& nbsp ; In the Gulf , news reports are increasingly speculating as to what will happen to Gaza after the conflict ; Al - Ain media discussed how the Palestinian Authority might return to Gaza . Lebanon has also reportedly put together an & ldquo ; emergency plan & rdquo ; to help civilians in case of a larger conflict in Lebanon . Halevi & rsquo ; s comments were the most emphatic acknowledgment to date of criticism from the IDF of the government for delaying the counter - invasion of Gaza . Nevertheless , the assessment is that Hamas is being put off balance by the continued aerial war .& ldquo ; We are keeping them in tension ,& rdquo ; said Halevi , suggesting that the longer Hamas waits for the Israeli invasion , the more stressed it will become . He also cited the complexity of trying to rescue 220 hostages .& ldquo ; Israel is at the height of a war that was started by the Hamas terrorist organization . It will regret it . It is starting to regret it even now ,& rdquo ; Halevi said . He has been briefing different units in the field and listening to fighters and commanders .& ldquo ; We have trained for this , we have outfitted the troops with quality tools , among the most advanced in the world . But most importantly , we have the best warriors for these missions .& rdquo ; & nbsp ;