Villagers in Beita , south of Nablus , decided to resume daily protests against the settler outpost of Aviatar shortly after National Security Minister Itamar Ben - Gvir visited the area on Friday . During the protests in 2021 , seven Palestinians were killed and dozens injured in clashes with IDF troops . Most of the protests took place at night and after Friday prayers . The protests were suspended in July 2021 after the settlers evacuated the caravans at the site . On Friday , Ben - Gvir visited the outpost , located in an area the Palestinians call Jabal Sabih , and called for a wide military offensive to kill thousands of terrorists and for increased settlement construction . After the visit , activists from the village said they will resume the & ldquo ; night confusion & rdquo ; activities against the IDF in the area . The activities previously included burning tires , setting off fireworks and throwing rocks and Molotov cocktails at soldiers and settlers .& ldquo ; There needs to be a full settlement here . Not just here but on all the hilltops around us ,& rdquo ; Ben - Gvir said . & ldquo ; We have to settle the Land of Israel and at the same time to launch a military campaign , blow up buildings and kill terrorists . Not one , or two , but dozens , hundreds , or if needed , thousands .& rdquo ; Ben - Gvir & rsquo ; s statements drew strong condemnations from the Palestinian Authority . Ben - Gvir ' s statements denouncedThe Palestinian Foreign Affairs Ministry denounced Ben - Gvir & rsquo ; s statements as & ldquo ; abhorrent and genocidal & rdquo ; and said they demonstrate & ldquo ; clear criminal and murderous intent .& rdquo ; In a statement , the ministry said that such & ldquo ; odious comments reflect Israel & rsquo ; s abject disregard of Palestinian lives and the pervasive culture of impunity in Israel with regard to Palestinian lives and rights .& rdquo ; These statements , the ministry said , & ldquo ; were made in the context of providing support and encouragement to Israeli settlers to commit yet more war crimes .& rdquo ; It accused the international community of failing to hold Israel accountable for its & ldquo ; systematic and widespread egregious violations of international law and Palestinian rights .& rdquo ; According to the Palestinian Ministry , the Israeli government is committing all these & ldquo ; crimes while enjoying cover , protection and even pandering by key international players that amounts to outright complicity . It urged the International Criminal Court ( ICC ) Prosecutor to end his & ldquo ; continued silence , procrastination and diminishing of the investigation into the situation in Palestine .& rdquo ; Rawhi Fattouh , Chairman of the Palestinian National Council , the PLO & rsquo ; s legislative body , also condemned Ben - Gvir & rsquo ; s remarks as & ldquo ; effrontery and direct incitement to terrorism and murder .& rdquo ; Fattouh claimed that the statements of the Israeli minister reflect the & ldquo ; fascist nature & rdquo ; of the Israeli government . He called on the ICC Prosecutor to issue an arrest warrant for Ben - Gvir and other Israelis like him and bring them to trial . He further called on the international community to classify the settlers as a & ldquo ; terrorist organization whose members should be pursued and brought to trial .& rdquo ; Fattouh added that statements of denunciation by the international community were insufficient because they have become too familiar and worthless as far as the Israeli government is concerned .& nbsp ;