The Nablus - based Lions & rsquo ; Den armed group has managed to recruit new members who are responsible for the resumption of the group & rsquo ; s attacks on the IDF , Palestinian sources confirmed on Wednesday . The number of Lions & rsquo ; Den gunmen currently stands at 40 to 50 , the sources claimed , adding that some of the new members were from surrounding refugee camps and villages . Earlier this month , the group , which is based in the Old City of Nablus , held a joint rally with gunmen belonging to the Balata Battalion from the nearby Balata Refugee Camp . Members of the two groups said in recent interviews that they have decided to increase cooperation between them . Sending a messageThe rally , attended by dozens of gunmen from the two groups , aimed to send a message to both Israel and the Palestinian Authority that , contrary to claims in some media outlets , the Lions & rsquo ; Den has not ceased to exist . The show of force was the first of its kind since Israeli security forces killed a number of Lions & rsquo ; Den commanders , including Wadee al - Houh , several weeks ago . Several members of the group have since turned themselves into the Palestinian security forces for fear of being arrested or killed by the IDF . The Lions & rsquo ; Den claimed responsibility for three shooting attacks against IDF soldiers and installations in the Nablus area over the past 48 hours . In the past , the group took credit for similar attacks . A senior Palestinian Authority official , meanwhile , denied that some of the gunmen who surrendered to the Palestinian security forces have been released .& ldquo ; They are still staying with us ,& rdquo ; the official told The Jerusalem Post , referring to the gunmen . & ldquo ; They & rsquo ; re not allowed to leave the [ security ] installations .& rdquo ; Among those held by the Palestinian security forces are Mahmoud al - Banna , Mohammed Tabanja , Mohammed Yaish , Emad Ja & rsquo ; ara and Bara & rsquo ; Izhiman & ndash ; all senior members of the Lions & rsquo ; Den . One of the founders and funders of the Lions & rsquo ; Den , Mosab Shtayyeh , who was arrested by Palestinian intelligence officers in September , also remains in detention in a Palestinian security facility in Jericho . Wave of violent protestsThe arrest sparked a wave of violent protests in Nablus and one Palestinian was killed during armed clashes between Palestinian policemen and rioters . But the sources told the Post that one Lion & rsquo ; s Den member who reportedly surrendered to the Palestinian security forces was seen last week in the Old City of Nablus . They identified the man as Mahmoud Abu Kayed , a former intelligence officer who had reportedly joined the Lions & rsquo ; Den . Other sources claimed Abu Kayed was actually sent by the Palestinian security forces to & ldquo ; infiltrate & rdquo ; the armed group and bring about its downfall , and that & rsquo ; s why he wasIzhiman , one of the Lions & rsquo ; Den gunmen , was arrested last week by Palestinian security officers while receiving treatment at the Specialized Arab Hospital in Nablus . Izhiman , who is wanted by Israeli security authorities for his involvement in terrorism , was injured last week during an armed clash with IDF troops in Nablus . He was still receiving medical treatment when officers from the Palestinian General Intelligence raided the hospital and took him into custody . He is currently being held in the Jnaid Prison in Nablus . Two other Lions & rsquo ; Den members , Tayseer al - Kharraz and Ikrimah Khamash , who were seriously injured during the IDF raid in which al - Houh was killed , also remain in a local hospital .& ldquo ; The Israelis think that killing or arresting some members of the group would put an end to the Lions & rsquo ; Den ,& rdquo ; a veteran Palestinian activist in Nablus told the Post . The activist , who said he was a former member of Al - Aqsa Martyrs Brigades , the armed group of the ruling Fatah faction , said : & ldquo ; They ( Israel ) don & rsquo ; t know that the group has become so popular among our people that there will always be many young people ready to join . Look what happened with the Al - Aqsa Martyrs Brigades . How many times have we been told in the past 22 years that the group was finished because Israel killed or arrested most of its leaders ? & nbsp ; Today , the Al - Aqsa Martyrs Brigades is very powerful and has a strong presence in the West Bank because the new generation has kept it alive .& rdquo ;