Simcha Rothman , the chair of the Knesset ' s Constitution , Law and Justice Committee , and member of Knesset from the Religious Zionist Party , spoke in a Holocaust ceremony at Columbia University in New York ." We are standing on Holocaust Memorial Day at Columbia University , and the antisemitism is on the rise here and in many places around the world ," said Rothman . He spoke to listeners about the ongoing demonstrations at American colleges , stressing the importance of separating protest from hate speech . Jews are facing severe threats in the diaspora " In a demonstration where people simply want to convey a message , this this is freedom of speech , this is legitimately possible . What we see here on campus is not a demonstration ; what we see here is support for terrorism and antisemitism ," he added . In recent weeks , dozens of campuses across the US have faced occupation and aggressive protest by activists in a bid to force the adoption of anti - Israel policies since the original April 17 Columbia University tent settlement . Many graduation ceremonies and exam seasons have been disrupted , and there have been incidents of violence and antisemitism towards Jewish and Israeli students and staff . Rothman addressed this by questioning why protests , under the guise of being critical of Israel , choose to discriminate against or harass Jewish students . He asked , & ldquo ; If you are protesting a policy , why would you prevent students from entering campus ? Why would you block a lecturer from entering the university if he looks Jewish ?& rdquo ; He spoke to the existential threat facing the State of Israel , which he says is fighting & ldquo ; not only to protect the safety of our citizens , but also to preserve the lives of Jews around the world & rdquo ;. View this post on InstagramA post shared by Simcha Rothman (@ mksimchar ) He correlated the struggles faced by Jews today with that of Jews in Nazi Germany , saying that there was a similarity & ldquo ; between what happened in Germany before the war and what is happening today on the streets of the USA .& rdquo ; He finished with a message of strength , encouraging unity between diaspora and Israeli Jews : & ldquo ; All of us together , unified , we should fight against terrorism and antisemitism in every possible way & rdquo ;. Michael Starr contributed to this report .