The IDF and the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) around 2 : 30 p . m . Thursday afternoon finally admitted to having arrested the director of Shifa Hospital , which has been at the center of media narrative battles between Israel and Hamas in Gaza . First , reports in the Palestinian and Hebrew media about his arrest surfaced already much earlier Thursday morning . Questioned repeatedly earlier in the morning about why he had been arrested and why no official announcement had gone out , Israeli and IDF officials ' responses alternated from surprise at the event to a promise that an announcement would go out soon . However , even the 2 : 30 p . m . announcement did not make any direct charges against the Shifa chief . Rather , the announcement said that he had been arrested and brought to the Shin Bet for interrogation after significant testimony and video evidence from others that Shifa had been used as a command center for Hamas during the director ' s tenure . The statement stated , " the terror group Hamas utilized many resources , including electricity in order to strengthen its tunnels which it built under the hospital . In addition , Hamas kept military items stored in the hospital and in its immediate surroundings ." In addition , the statement read that after the October 7 Hamas mass terror attack on Israel ' s South , the terror group " used the hospital as a refuge for its terror forces and even brought Israeli hostages to there who were kidnapped during the day of slaughter . A pathology report confirmed that soldier Noa Marciano was murdered on the grounds of Shifa Hospital ." Next , the statement said vaguely that , " a decision regarding his detention would be made in conjunction with the findings of the investigation regarding his involvement with the hospital ' s connection to terror ." There are a number of possible scenarios about how this could play out . If Israel has direct Palestinian witness testimony or videographic evidence to incriminate the director , he could actually be brought to trial before special civilian courts or Israeli military courts on those charges and could be potentially sentenced to prison time in Israel . Alternatively , Israel may not have such direct incriminating evidence , and its evidence may be more ambiguous , such as the idea that it would be impossible for any reasonable director to be completely oblivious to the sheer volume of uses by Hamas of his hospital . In this case , it might still try to mount a case for some kind of easier to prove more minor charge , such as aiding and abetting terrorism without even being a member of a terror group . Yet another possibility is that the Shin Bet hopes to scare him into providing them intelligence information to more quickly uncover the remaining aspects of Hamas ' s concealed presence at Shifa , in which case if he cooperates , he may be released with no charges . Even if a case is brought against him , he could always defend against any conviction by claiming his life was under threat and that any passive cooperation he provided to Hamas was under coercion and duress , or was for the benefit of his patients , who Hamas might otherwise kill . This could make him difficult to convict . In all scenarios , detaining him will be complex globally , as generally democracies do not detain senior medical staff who are not their citizens . Hamas immediately condemned the arrest of the director of the hospital , saying " We see this move by Israel as nothing less than despicable , lacking any sense of humanity and morals . It is also a flagrant violation of international norms and charters , given obligations to ensure that medical personnel are never harmed , including in times of war ."" We call on international bodies , including the International Committee of the Red Cross and the World Health Organization ( WHO ), with which Dr . Muhammad was in contact to evacuate the remaining patients and wounded from Al - Shifa Hospital , to exert pressure on the Israeli occupation army to secure his release , along with the medical personnel who were arrested simply for continuing to fulfill their humanitarian duty ." Since 2014 , top Israeli defense officials have repeatedly stated that top Hamas officials spent the 2014 Gaza conflict hiding in tunnels under Shifa Hospital and the complex has since been turned into a massive underground military installation . In recent days , the IDF has published footage showing rooms and tunnels found under the hospital , as well as weapons found in the facility . Hostages held in Shifa hospitalSurveillance camera footage retrieved from the hospital showed at least two hostages being brought by armed individuals into the hospital on October 7 , including one who was being dragged by his head through the hospital . IDF R .- Adm . Daniel Hagari also revealed recently that intelligence has shown that Israeli hostage , Noa Marciano , was killed in Shifa . The IDF did not comment on reports that a small number of other medical staff were arrested . Meanwhile , the IDF worked hard on Thursday to toughen its positions across northern Gaza to prevent any surprise attacks by Hamas . In 2014 , Hamas violated a number of temporary ceasefires , in some cases successfully surprising and killing IDF soldiers . IDF Chief - of - Staff Lt .- Gen . Herzi Halevi had held a briefing with all major generals , brigadier generals , and colonels involved in Gaza operations on Wednesday to ensure that they would be ready for anything Hamas might try . The IDF also said that Maj . Gen . ( res .) Nitzan Alon had set up a special apparatus near the Gaza border for taking in hostages presuming Hamas follows through with the terms of the war pause .& nbsp ; That apparatus is highly organized both in terms of special medical and psychological staff as well as helicopters and other heavy weaponry to ensure security . Besides those developments , due to the war pause being delayed , the IDF continued attacks on Hamas on Thursday in Jabalia and Zeitoun , northeast areas which it only turned its attention to late last week after having already taken over central Gaza City . The IDF said it had found more weapons hidden in children ' s beds , mosaues , and other civilian locations , as it had previously in other parts of Gaza . If the war pause ends in the next 4 - 10 days , the IDF would be expected to spend some days or up to a week finishing with Hamas in Jabalia and Zeitoun as well as taking on Hamas in the tough Shejaiya neighborhood where some of the harshest battles were fought in 2014 . The IDF would also need to eventually invade Khan Younis and Rafah , among other Hamas southern strongholds , which could take more time to subdue .