Women are breaking through more and more barriers to serve in elite IDF units in parallel to the ongoing war . Twenty - three recently passed initial vetting rounds to move toward more specific training programs for potentially serving in elite units . Out of those 23 , eight out of 10 passed from the Five Fingers training organization which focuses on assisting women through these processes . One woman , Li Hochman , from Even Yehuda , has even moved on to potential vetting for the Sayeret Matkal special forces unit . After one vetting session , Hochman told the Magazine , & ldquo ; We did more in one morning than many people do in a day . We can really help with our military service . We have a lot of pride . We competed with a group of very large men . This could deter lots of women and cause some anxiety , but if you understand you can do it all and you act with professionalism , then there is nothing you cannot achieve .& ldquo ; The sky & rsquo ; s the limit . Everything new is challenging . But this is a chance to be a positive influence and an example ,& rdquo ; she added . Which elite IDF units are women trying to enter ? More of the women are trying to make it into special units like Oketz , which does combat and special operations using dogs ; the anti - tunnel Yahalom unit ; and the 669 Search and Rescue Unit . In general , women have received a windfall in support for elite units following the high levels of performance of a number of IDF female combat fighters and police combat fighters on Oct . 7 and during the Gaza invasion . There is also an increasing number of women in higher ranking career - track jobs in the IDF , with two major - generals , seven brigadier - generals , 51 colonels , and 486 lieutenant - colonels . If before , one of the last remaining objections of doubters was that IDF women could perform stationary guard duty but that when a real war came they would be a liability , all of the data and narratives from Oct . 7 and after suggest that female combat fighters performed at high levels under the most extreme possible conditions . Corp . Maya Atilas of the Gaza Division & rsquo ; s Border Defense Unit told the Magazine about her Oct . 7 experience on the southern front . After the massacre , she felt the IDF would have easily let her switch to a lower - risk position , but she insisted on staying , explaining , & ldquo ; It was personal for me that it was important to do because also maybe someone would say women would not be able to continue , but I couldn & rsquo ; t quit . No matter how hard it was to go back to the lookout post , I will continue .& ldquo ; I understand the importance . The combat fighters need us so much . The most significant message for all young women who are afraid of taking this job in the IDF : The mission is so important . It is the greatest pride you can have ,& rdquo ; she said . Besides some of the above individual stories , there was also encouraging data months into the war at the end of 2023 . According to the data , the number of female draftees seeking combat positions in the shadow of the war broke every pre - war set goal . Regarding female draftees & rsquo ; participation , border patrol units were at 116 %; battle - related intelligence collection was at 133 %; artillery was at 132 %; air defense was at 101 %; rescue units were at 122 %; and border police was at 119 %. An additional 12 % of women draftees requested to serve in combat units since the start of the war . In addition , two women passed the vetting process for the elite Air Force search and rescue Unit 669 . They have started a 20 - month elite training course to join the unit & rsquo ; s combat ranks . Just getting to the point where women can be considered for such a unit has been a long and winding path . A petition to the High Court of Justice filed a few years ago helped pressure the IDF High Command into opening some new combat units to women . These included Yahalom and mobile deployment units in the Infantry Corps in summer 2023 . That women would be able to compete for spots in the IAF & rsquo ; s 669 Combat Search and Rescue Unit was announced in October 2022 and only came to fruition in January 2023 . Some groups still view this progress as inadequate . They note that there are other militaries in which women are already allowed to serve in all elite combat units . Still , there is no question that the recent trend , especially since the outbreak of the current war , has led to the integration of more women into units in which they previously could not serve . 