The Israeli public must force the government to secure the release of the four Gaza captives , said Tzur Goldin at the start of a three - day march to highlight their plight , including that of his twin brother , Hadar .& ldquo ; No one in this government intends to bring my brother home ,& rdquo ; said Tzur . & ldquo ; We the public will bring them home .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; No one in this government intends to bring my brother home . We the public will bring them home .& rdquo ; Tzur GoldinTzur set out on Wednesday morning from the family & rsquo ; s Kfar Saba home with his father , Simha , his mother , Leah , and hundreds of other supporters . They marched to Rishon Lezion , from where they planned to set out on Thursday with an eye toward reaching the Erez Crossing at the Gaza border on Friday . At issue is the plight of four men : Hadar Goldin , Oron Shaul , Avera Mengistu and Hisham al - Sayad . Shaul and Goldin , both IDF soldiers , are believed to have been killed during the 2014 Gaza war , and their bodies have been held by Hamas . The captured boysMengistu and Sayad are both Israeli civilians who suffer from psychological illnesses , which led to their wandering into Gaza . Mengistu entered Gaza in 2014 , and Hisham in 2015 . In June , Hamas released a video of Hisham alive but lying in bed hooked up to an oxygen mask . Hamas , which forcibly rules Gaza , said that Hisham was ill . The Goldin family chose to set out now because Hadar was ambushed by Hamas in a Gaza tunnel eight years ago on August 1 . He was 23 at the time . Tzur told the marchers that the & ldquo ; biggest bluff that recent governments tell the public is that there are efforts to return the captives . There are no efforts to return the captives .& rdquo ; His family , Tzur said , is & ldquo ; not afraid of Hamas . We will reach the Gaza border and broadcast the message that this is one big bluff .& rdquo ; At issue for the Goldin family , in particular , is Israel & rsquo ; s failure to link the passage of goods into Gaza with the release of the captives . At the start of the march , Simha recited the prayer for a safe journey , and Leah thanked the participants at the end of the first day of the event .& ldquo ; We are marching to bring the boys back home ,& rdquo ; she said . Despite her inclusive message , much of the publicity around the march spoke of only Goldin , Shaul and Mengistu . This included T - shirts and flags calling for the return of the boys . A spokesman for the march said he had no idea why all the publicity material had not included all four of the men . The Goldin family has been at the forefront of the publicity battle for the return of the men , who are often referred to as & ldquo ; the sons .& rdquo ; According to a spokesperson for the march , they were the only family members present on the first day , however , representatives from other families are likely to join the march on Thursday and Friday .