The IDF has reinforced the Gaza Division ahead of rallies planned for Wednesday by Palestinians in the Gaza Strip . The reinforcements include two units of special forces , an armored company and snipers , the IDF said Tuesday .
& ldquo ; IDF forces will act vigorously in the face of terrorist attempts at the fence ,& rdquo ; it said .
The decision to reinforce the Gaza Division came following a situational assessment led by OC Southern Command Maj .- Gen . Eliezer Toledano . During the meeting , officers discussed the location of various forces , procedures for opening fire and approved operational plans .
The meeting took place ahead of a rally the Palestinians have called & ldquo ; The Sword of Jerusalem shall not be sheathed ,& rdquo ; a reference to Hamas & rsquo ; s name for the fighting that took place in May .
The IDF is preparing for a variety of scenarios , including violent riots along the perimeter fence , the launching of incendiary balloons and rocket fire toward Israeli communities .
& ldquo ; The IDF will respond strongly to terrorist attempts and hold the Hamas terrorist organization responsible for everything that is happening in the Gaza Strip ,& rdquo ; the IDF said .

On Saturday , during a violent riot along the Gaza perimeter fence , Border Police officer Bar - el Shmueli was shot in the head by a Hamas terrorist who approached his position and shot Shmueli with a handgun .
Shmueli underwent several operations at Soroka - University Medical Center in Beersheba and was in critical condition , intubated and sedated .
Following criticism that no senior IDF officer came to the hospital , Chief of Staff Lt .- Gen . Aviv Kohavi and Toledano visited his bedside on Tuesday .
More than 41 Palestinians , including 10 children , were injured during the demonstrations , the Gaza Strip & rsquo ; s Health Ministry reported . Among them were a 13 - year - old boy who was hit in the head east of Gaza City , someone who was hit in the neck with a rubber bullet , a woman and a journalist , it said .
Gaza is engaged in an open military confrontation with Israel with the aim of putting pressure to end the 11 - year blockade on the coastal enclave , Palestinian Islamic Jihad spokesman Daoud Shehab said Tuesday .
& ldquo ; The Palestinian resistance looks at what is happening today in Jerusalem and the attacks in the West Bank , and it always has its hand on the trigger ,& rdquo ; he was quoted as saying by the Palestinian Ma & rsquo ; an news agency .
& ldquo ; The resistance is following all of this and is ready and ready in case the occupation tries to change the rules of engagement ,& rdquo ; Shehab said , adding that groups in the Gaza Strip are & ldquo ; ready to respond to any aggression .& rdquo ;
Israeli defense officials believe Hamas is ready for another round of fighting . It has said it is satisfied with the outcome of Operation Guardian of the Walls , but Hamas & rsquo ; s rocket arsenal was not hit as hard as it would have liked .