Israel has confirmed the identities of the eight hostages who were released on Thursday evening , after 54 days of being held captive by Hamas in the Gaza Strip . Belal and AIsha ZaidnaBelal and AIsha Zaidna are two of four members of the Zaidna family , including father Yosef Hamis and their sibling Hamza , who went missing on October 7 when Hamas terrorists invaded Kibbutz Holit . They were working in the kibbutz ' s cow shed at the time . Despite government involvement Hamis and Hamza ' s whereabouts remain unknown , and they have not been officially classified as Hamas captives . Shani Goren , 29Shani Goren , 29 , was taken hostage from her home in Nir Oz by Hamas terrorists on October 7 . She was a counselor for many years in the kibbutz ' s youth organization . One of the children she worked with in that role was Eitan Yahalomi , a 12 - year old boy who was also kidnapped on Oct . 7 and was released earlier this week . According to Shani ' s sister , Shira , Shani was with Eitan in captivity , and watched over him , sharing her food with him and looking after his wellbeing . Amit Soussana , 40Amit Soussana , 40 , was kidnapped by Hamas terrorists after they invaded her home in Kfar Azza , one of the hardest hit areas on October 7 . Amit is the youngest of three sisters , an attorney at one of Israel ' s most prominent Intellectual Property firms . A native of Sderot , she moved to Kfar Azza a year ago . Mia Schem , 21Mia Schem , 21 , was at the Nova festival with her friend on October 7 when Hamas terrorists invaded Israel from Gaza and massacred hundreds of people at the festival , and kidnapping others including Mia . In the days following the massacre , Hamas released a video of Schem showing she had been treated for an injured arm , and of her telling viewers she was safe and asking them to help bring her home as soon as possible . A tattoo artist in Modiin , Schem had made a tattoo of an Israeli flag surrounded by hearts just a week before the massacre , due to her love for her country , according to the owner of the shop where she works .& nbsp ; Sapir Cohen , 29Sapir Cohen , 29 , was kidnapped along with her boyfriend , Sasha Trufanov , from his family ' s home in Kibbutz Nir Oz . His mother , Yelena , and grandmother , Irena Tati , were also taken captive . His father was killed . Yelena and Irena , who hold Russian citizenship , were released by Hamas earlier this week after a request by Russian President Vladimir Putin . Sasha remains in captivity .& nbsp ; Ilana Gritzewsky , 30Ilana Gritzewsky , 30 , was abducted from Kibbutz Nir Oz along with her partner , Matan Zanguaker . A dual Mexican national who made aliyah 14 years ago after attending high school in Israel through the Naale program , Gritzewsky had told friends and family she felt she had " made it " as an Israeli by living in Nir Oz and dating an Israeli .& nbsp ; In a post to the social network X after Gritzewsky ' s release , Mexican Foreign Minister Alicia Barcena thanked the Qatari government for its " invaluable mediation ," and said Mexico was still working to liberate the other Mexican hostage , Orion Hernandez . Nili Margalit , 41Nili Margalit , 41 , is a pediatric nurse who was kidnapped from her home in Kibbutz Nir Oz . It took several weeks for authorities to confirm that Margalit had been kidnapped , as her home had been completely burnt to the ground . After former hostage Yocheved Lifshitz ' s release , the elderly woman said that Margalit had been with her in captivity , and had tended to the other hostages ' injuries , caring for others " as she always did ."