The IDF launched a surprise attack on the Gaza Strip early Tuesday morning , assassinating three senior terrorists in the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) movement in a series of airstrikes referred to as Operation Shield and Arrow . The officials assassinated in the strikes include Khalil Bahitini , the commander of the al - Quds Brigades in the northern Gaza Strip , Tareq Ezzaldin , a spokesperson for the movement who also manages terrorist activities in the West Bank and Gaza , and Jihad Ghanem , secretary of the movement ' s military council . Who is Khalil Bahitini ? Bahitini served as the commander of the PIJ ' s al - Quds Brigades in the northern Gaza Strip and was the most senior operational commander in the movement , according to the IDF . The commander was responsible for & nbsp ; rocket fire toward Israel in the past month and was planning further rocket fire in the near future , according to the IDF . Who is Tareq Ezzaldin ? Ezzaldin , a spokesperson for the PIJ , was responsible for the communications between the movement and its branches in the West Bank , for transferring funds and coordinating incitement efforts in Israeli territory . Ezzaldin was released from Israeli prison in the Gilad Shalit prisoner swap . Who is Jihad Ghanem ? Ghanem , secretary of the movement ' s military council , was one of the most senior and veteran operatives in the movement and served at one point as the commander of the al - Quds Brigades in the southern Gaza Strip . In his latest position , Ghanem was responsible for coordinating the transfer of funds and weapons from the PIJ to Hamas . The wives and some of the children of the three senior terrorists were killed in the strikes as well . Islamic Jihad : The resistance will continueThe PIJ confirmed that the three senior officials were killed , along with their wives and some of their children , in the strikes , stressing " we affirm that the blood of the martyrs will increase our resolve , and we will not leave our positions , and the resistance will continue ." Islamic Jihad spokesman Tariq Selmi warned that the Palestinian factions would " start from where the previous battles ended ," warning that " all scenarios and options are open to the resistance to respond to the crimes of the occupation ." Selmi added that " the resistance will avenge the martyr leaders ." Ismail Haniyeh , head of the Hamas movement , warned that Israel " made a mistake in its estimates and will pay the price for its crime ," adding that " the aggression targets all of our people , and the resistance is unified in confronting it ." Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem accused Israel of " escalating its aggression against the Gaza Strip ," stressing that " the resistance will continue to defend our people and their sanctities ."