Over the weekend , the IDF scoured the West Bank for the Palestinian terrorist that moderately injured one 18 - year - old hesder yeshiva student when he fired at the Carmel settlement in the South Hebron Hills the night before . It was the second significant terror attack in the West Bank involving Israeli civilians in the last two weeks and comes amid a spike in such incidents . Seven Israelis were injured when terrorists fired on a bus in the Jordan Valley . On Thursday , at least one Palestinian shooter fired at the settlement from an open area near Carmel , hitting a pre - army religious seminary for young men called Reuta , also known as a hesder yeshiva . The bullets pierced the door , hitting a student and startling the room & rsquo ; s occupants , who had not understood until that moment that they were under attack .' We didn ' t realize we were in a shooting incident ' The yeshiva & rsquo ; s Rabbi Natan Ofner explained to KAN News that he and others were studying in the building when they heard a very loud noise . When one of the room & rsquo ; s occupants went out to check what was going on , & ldquo ; we didn & rsquo ; t see anything . Then we heard another noise . In hindsight , we realized it was gunshots that hit the door of the women & rsquo ; s section ,& rdquo ; Ofner said . At the time , Ofner said , the group thought something had fallen . He and a student went to investigate and returned because everything seemed fine . Then , they heard three & ldquo ; very loud explosions & rdquo ; that sounded very close , followed by a volley of gunfire that penetrated the door near where they were standing .& ldquo ; We still didn & rsquo ; t realize that we were in a shooting incident [ until ] the student saw he was soaked in blood , then everyone realized what was going on .& rdquo ; The students entered a protected space and & ldquo ; we called the army , which arrived quickly ,& rdquo ; Ofner said . In the meantime , the shooting continued until the army arrived , he added . The student was taken to a hospital , where he underwent surgery to remove the bullet fragments and Ofner said he was expected to recover quickly . Separately . the Jerusalem coordinator for the Religious Zionist Party Elhanan Wolff who was driving in the area said his vehicle was hit by the same gunfire , but that he was unscathed . The shooter was using an automatic rifle , he said . Immediately after the attack , residents of the small Carmel settlement were asked to stay in their homes . Earlier this week Maj . Bar Falah , 30 , was killed as he stopped armed Palestinians from infiltrating into sovereign Israel through the security barrier .