& ldquo ; Palestinians renew threat to nix agreements with Israel ,& rdquo ; read the headline to a story in Wednesday & rsquo ; s Jerusalem Post .
According to the story by Khaled Abu Toameh , Palestinian officials are threatening to rescind the Oslo Accords , cut off security cooperation and demand one democratic state & ndash ; instead of a two - state solution & ndash ; if Israel does not recognize an independent Palestinian state with east Jerusalem as its capital along the pre - 1967 lines .
In addition , the Palestinian leadership has decided to dispatch envoys to several countries urging them to pressure Israel , and Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is planning a visit to Russia to get Moscow to do the same and press Israel into committing to a two - state solution . Maybe , in Moscow , an idea first broached in 2007 , a Russian - sponsored international conference on the Middle East , will be floated yet again .
Abu Toameh & rsquo ; s story , with a slight change of the names of some of the officials quoted inside , could have been written in 2005 , 2010 and 2015 . It is as if time has stood still , as if the Palestinians have a set diplomatic menu from which they call in an order from time to time . Nothing has changed . Not the threats to scrap Oslo , stop security cooperation with Israel or lobby the world to step up the pressure on the Jewish state .
One staple on that menu that was not mentioned this time , at least not yet , was that Abbas would resign , something he has threatened to do & ndash ; but has failed to deliver on & ndash ; numerous times in the past .

What is clear from these tired threats , and the same old pattern of actions & ndash ; saying all signed agreements will be canceled , going to Moscow , threatening to revoke recognition of Israel & ndash ; is that the PA has no idea what to do next diplomatically .
The diplomatic process has ground to a halt , the Americans & ndash ; realizing that it is not going anywhere right now & ndash ; have pushed it way down their list of priorities , and the PA leadership has no idea of how to further its aims .
So it reverts to the default option : threats .
THERE ARE two problems with that option , however . The first is that these threats have been issued so often in the past that they simply don & rsquo ; t move anybody . They are empty . And the second problem is that using these threats has not worked .
The PA leadership has not moved any closer to its goals by threatening to break off agreements with Israel or get an international conference convened . Issuing these threats may serve a domestic political need to flex a muscle from time to time , to show the home audience that the leadership is doing something , but it is having exactly no impact on Israeli policy , and not doing much either in terms of mobilizing international involvement .
All these threats do is demonstrate that the Palestinian leadership is out of ideas . Short of complaining that Israel is an apartheid state committing ethnic cleansing and trying to get the International Criminal Court to step in , it has no fresh propositions to put forward .
Not , mind you , that the Israeli government is bursting with them . But it is trying to put forth a more constructive approach , though others will argue that the recent announcement about a plan to advance construction of more than 3 , 000 homes beyond the Green Line is anything but helpful . Even there , however , that announcement was preceded by approval of some 1 , 300 units for Palestinians in the West Bank , as well as the granting of legal status to some 4 , 000 Palestinians living there & ndash ; types of & ldquo ; constructive gestures & rdquo ; toward the Palestinians not seen in years .
This is all part of an idea that has taken hold in the Bennett government of & ldquo ; shrinking the conflict ,& rdquo ; making life for the Palestinians easier , improving the economic conditions in the West Bank , and promoting economic independence there , even while acknowledging that an overall peace settlement is nowhere in the offing .
Prime Minister Naftali Bennett has not taken this idea , developed by Micah Goodman & ndash ; who reportedly has Bennett & rsquo ; s ear & ndash ; as far as Goodman would like , but it is still something .
Goodman & rsquo ; s idea is for more than just an & ldquo ; economic peace ,& rdquo ; but actually for Israel to give the Palestinians more area to control , a direction that Yair Lapid could conceivably follow if / when he becomes premier in August 2023 .
Even if Bennett is not going as far as Goodman might like , he is still pushing something positive .
The PA leadership , on the other hand , is just going back to the same slogans and the same methods , vainly hoping that this time they will render a significantly different result . They won & rsquo ; t .
Some new ideas , new thinking , new approaches are badly needed out of Ramallah . The PA needs to come up with something better than the & ldquo ; same old , same old ,& rdquo ; because that has proven to be a path leading nowhere .