Hezbollah & rsquo ; s actions endanger Lebanon and can bring the entire region toward unnecessary escalation , Prime Minister Yair Lapid warned Tuesday during a tour of the IDF & rsquo ; s Northern Command .& ldquo ; The State of Israel is prepared and ready to act against any threat . We are not facing a confrontation , but anyone who tries to harm our sovereignty or the citizens of Israel will very quickly find out that he has made a serious mistake ,& rdquo ; Lapid said . Prime Minister Yair Lapid and Defense Minister Benny Gantz today toured the Northern Command and the border with Lebanon , held an operational situational assessment , and spoke with senior officers in the sector . Lapid and Gantz were joined by the head of the National Security Council Eyal Haluta , Deputy Chief of Staff Maj .- Gen . Hertzi Halevi , Head of the Northern Command Maj .- Gen . Amir Baram , and the PM & rsquo ; s military secretary Brig .- Gen . Shai Clapper .& ldquo ; Israel is interested in Lebanon as a stable and prosperous neighbor that is not a platform for Hezbollah & rsquo ; s terrorism and is not an Iranian tool ,& rdquo ; Lapid said . Stressing that Israel & ldquo ; has no interest & rdquo ; in an escalation , the terror group & rsquo ; s continued hostile action & ldquo ; endangers Lebanon , its citizens and their well - being ,& rdquo ; Lapid said .& ldquo ; Hezbollah ' s aggression is unacceptable and could lead the entire region to an unnecessary escalation ." Prime Minister Yair Lapid & ldquo ; Hezbollah & rsquo ; s aggression is unacceptable and could lead the entire region to an unnecessary escalation , especially when Lebanon has a real opportunity to develop its energy resources ,& rdquo ; Lapid continued . Israel , he said , & ldquo ; is acting and will continue to act against every Iranian terrorist branch in the region and in general . Iran is the largest exporter of terrorism in the world . We will act on our own and in cooperation with other countries in the region to prevent Iran from undermining regional stability .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; Gantz said that Jerusalem is keeping a close eye on the financial crisis in Lebanon and that Beirut is & ldquo ; well aware & rdquo ; of what would happen should a war break out between the two sides . Since the devastating explosion of Beirut & rsquo ; s port in the summer of 2020 and the ongoing financial crisis , Jerusalem has offered aid to Beirut multiple times including to the Lebanese Armed Forces . The country & rsquo ; s economic meltdown , one of the world & rsquo ; s worst since the 1850s , has driven an estimated four million families into poverty in the last two years , unable to afford basic necessities like food or medical care . Gantz also publicly stated that Israel has offered aid four times in the past year . Due to the long - standing enmity between the two sides , Lebanon was expected to refuse the aid , but there was no response despite Israel & rsquo ; s follow - up requests to quietly provide the aid through a third country . Israel reached out to provide such goods to the Lebanese people , but Jerusalem never heard back .& ldquo ; Israel is ready to do a lot to make its neighbors prosper and is ready to act all the time to protect its citizens . We are ready in all dimensions ; in the air , at sea , on land and in the cyber sphere ,& rdquo ; Gantz said . But , he added , & ldquo ; the State of Lebanon and its leaders are well aware that if they choose the path of fire , they will be harmed and severely burned . And if they choose the path of stability , they will help the citizens of Lebanon ,& rdquo ; he added . On Monday the IDF intercepted a drone that was launched by the group into Israeli airspace . Earlier this month , the Israeli Navy and Air Force intercepted three other Iranian - made drones that had been launched toward the Karish gas rig . Lapid , who flew over the rig , said that Israel & rsquo ; s gas reserves can contribute to & ldquo ; resolving the global energy crisis . Lebanon can also benefit from the development of its economic water reservoirs , through negotiations , which must be completed soon ,"& nbsp ;" The new rig is the energy future of the State of Israel and an economic opportunity that includes the export of gas to Egypt and Europe , from which every Israeli citizen will benefit in the not too distant future ," added the prime minister . Hezbollah threatens Karish gas rigHezbollah Secretary - General Hassan Nasrallah has threatened to use force to prevent the Karish gas rig from producing natural gas , which is expected to start in several weeks . Israel sees the rig as a strategic asset several kilometers south of the area over which negotiations are being conducted , and has warned that it will defend it . The Lebanese government slammed Hezbollah for the launching of the drones , which was done without the government & rsquo ; s consent . IDF vs dronesHezbollah is believed to have some 2 , 000 unmanned aerial vehicles , many of them advanced UAVs from Iran and others manufactured independently by the Lebanese terror group . The Israel Air Force has admitted that identifying and intercepting hostile drones is challenging and considers drones to be one of the top five threats facing the country . The defense establishment is also concerned about the damage to the IAF & rsquo ; s aerial superiority over Lebanon due to Hezbollah & rsquo ; s long - range missiles and air defense systems . Beirut demands control over tunnel in IsraelAlso on Monday , & nbsp ; Hezbollah - allied Public Works Minister Ali Hamieh said that Beirut wants control over a tunnel that goes from Israel into Lebanon built by the British army that has been shuttered since 1948 . The tunnel was built between 1942 and 1944 for a railway to link Egypt and Turkey , passing through what was then the British Mandate of Palestine , and Lebanon . It was blocked up with a cement wall when Israel left south Lebanon . A small segment of the Israeli section is now part of the Rosh Hanikra tourist spot . Gantz and Lapid toured the area on Tuesday .& ldquo ; Our sovereign rights lie in our decision to restore every inch of the occupied tunnel , besides our decision to restore our land and maritime borders too ,& rdquo ; said Hamieh during a visit to Naqoura where the tunnel enters Lebanon . Hamieh said that the tunnel is another contested area along with the Shebaa Farms and Kfar Chouba Hills along with the disputed maritime border .& ldquo ; We will not give up an inch ,& rdquo ; of the land or maritime borders , Hamieh said , & ldquo ; We also want our rights and borders in the tunnel until the last square meter .& rdquo ;