Haifa Mayor Yona Yahav revealed at a toast in the Sephardic House Hotel in Jerusalem his intention to name a neighborhood in the city after President Joe Biden as a token of appreciation for his support for Israel , Israeli media reported on Tuesday . During the traditional Passover toasting ceremony of the Sephardic House , Yahav revealed for the first time his intention to name a neighborhood in the city after US President Joe Biden . A similar proposal led to the creation of Ramat Trump in the Golan in 2020 .& nbsp ; The mayor pledged that he would introduce Jewish diaspora heritage studies into the curriculum of Haifa schools so that " we would all really know each other ". As part of his desire for a real connection between all the people who live in Haifa , Yahav also plans to implement the study of spoken Arabic in all schools starting from the second grade . Another distinguished guest at the ceremony was Haim Cohen , the chairman of the World Spanish Federation in Israel . Along with Cohen came most of the heads of the organizations included in the federation . Attorney Yosef Gilaur , chairman of the Haifa Sephardic Jewish Community Committee , did not hide his excitement : " Haim is a mentor and a true friend for the community committee and a close friend for me personally ." Sadness , worry , resilience and comfortIn his words for the holiday , Gilaur detailed the sadness and worry that we all experience . At the same time , he also offered consolation : " We knew how to overcome cruel enemies and serious crises in the past . We have mental strength . If we cling to despair , the flowers of spring will not grow . If we cling to hope and nurture it , we will have a real revival ." Yossi Azari , chairman of the Sephardic House ' s Day Center , also spoke at the ceremony and emphasized the center ' s activities ' contribution to the community in Haifa and beyond . Netali Ben , the CEO of the Sephardi House , discussed the hardships leading up to the ceremony and the importance of maintaining tradition in dealing with the complex reality . She also complimented the employees : " We maintained emotional and team resilience even after the horrors of 7 / 10 . We continued to provide the tenants with wholehearted service and also a sense of security ." At the end of the ceremony , all those present expressed hope that all the hostages would return to us soon and that we would all have a happy and peaceful holiday .