Fifty - five years after the 1967 war , the status of the West Bank ( aka Judea and Samaria ) and of its Palestinian Arabs residents remains unclear , temporary and officially disputed . Because the war & rsquo ; s outcome was unexpected , Israel & rsquo ; s government at the time did not have a ready framework for the future . In the best of Jewish traditions , ministers and pundits spent weeks , months and then years debating the issues , waiting in vain for the Palestinians to respond substantively .& nbsp ; For more stories released for the 55th anniversary of the Six Day War , click here . In this vacuum , some Israeli groups created facts on the ground that evolved into settlements and cities on ancient Jewish biblical sites , while the army established positions that , in some instances , became towns . The result was chaotic , with no strategic or political coherence . Unlike almost every other country , Israel does not have clear borders and operates two parallel legal systems & ndash ; one for pre - 1967 Israel , and another for the residents of the post -& rsquo ; 67 territory . Another unplanned result is the gradual morphing of the land from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River into a single political entity , in which the Palestinian and Jewish populations of approximately the same size are locked into waves of terrorism and response . For the Palestinians , the 55 - year status quo keeps alive the illusion of moving the clock back to 1947 , abetted by massive international support for a unique and mythical & ldquo ; refugee & rdquo ; status . The image of a single state in which half or more of the population is Palestinian , and where Jews ( Zionists ) eventually disappear like the Crusaders , is far more appealing than a & ldquo ; two - state solution ,& rdquo ; which would acknowledge the legitimacy of Jewish sovereignty , regardless of borders . While many Israelis have become accustomed to the stalemate , for outsiders & ndash ; including many Jews & ndash ; Israel is presented by the NGO industry in cartoon - like portraits of colonial settlers , apartheidists and serial killers of journalists , accompanied by the slogans and myths of international law . When Al Jazeera reporter Shireen Abu Akleh was killed in Jenin , Israel was automatically accused of & ldquo ; cold - blooded murder ,& rdquo ; ignoring the absence of evidence . In part , this demonization reflects hostility to Jewish empowerment & ndash ; in other words , antisemitism & ndash ; regardless of borders , and reinforced by NGO propaganda campaigns . The post - 1967 images , however inaccurate and unfair , make this easier . In parallel , after more than five decades , tens of thousands of families living outside the 1949 & ldquo ; Green Line & rdquo ; face outbreaks of chaos and uncertainty . Disputes over land ownership lead to years of legal proceedings and unpredictable court decisions . This absurd situation is unimaginable for people living a few kilometers away , on the other side , in & ldquo ; sovereign & rdquo ; Israel . None of these observations are new & ndash ; indeed , they should be obvious . Not obvious at all is what can be done in 2022 to replace the status quo with a better and realistic framework , if one can be found . The search for alternatives that avoid the drift and end the chaos is critical for the future of Israel and Zionism . The goal here is not to propose another imaginary peace plan & ndash ; there are plenty of these gathering dust on physical and virtual diplomatic and academic shelves . Rather , my objective is to contribute to a renewed Israeli debate on options and alternatives to the status quo , based on where we are now , in June 2022 . The hope is that through a substantive discussion anchored in political realism , Israel can move beyond the trap of continuing chaos leading to a single non - Zionist state . Diplomatic Dead Ends : 1967 - 2022Before considering alternatives , a brief summary of previous efforts is worthwhile , at least to avoid some of the illusions and mistakes . Immediately after the 1967 war , euphoric Israelis , who feared the worst just a few days before , were suddenly able to enter Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Old City and visit the ancient biblical sites that had been previously closed to Jews . A return to the narrow armistice lines ( drawn in green on maps ) that had prevailed since 1949 was , and remains , unthinkable . Unlike Egypt and Syria , there was no international border in the West Bank to serve as a basis for negotiation & ndash ; Jordan & rsquo ; s Arab Legion had occupied this territory for almost 20 years , including eastern Jerusalem , and allowed fedayeen to launch murderous raids into Israel . Going back to the previous situation was a non - starter & ndash ; the question was , and remains , what should replace it ? In addition to holding Jerusalem , officials agreed that the Jordan River would remain as Israel & rsquo ; s eastern border , with a buffer and access zone in the Jordan Valley . But from here , the views diverged . Foreign Minister Yigal Allon presented a plan in which small areas such as Gush Etzion ( from which Jews were expelled in 1948 ) would be incorporated . But most of the West Bank would revert to Jordan , noting that : & ldquo ; From a demographic standpoint , a Jewish majority will be kept / maintained , which would allow Israel to exist as a democratic Jewish state , based on the principles of the Zionist vision .& rdquo ; In contrast , minister - without - portfolio Menachem Begin adamantly rejected foreign sovereignty over any parts of the Land of Israel , including Judea and Samaria & ndash ; the biblical terms that were also used during the British Mandate . However , while agreeing with Allon on demography and Zionism , he rejected annexation , even as prime minister a decade later . Begin & rsquo ; s alternative was autonomy for the & ldquo ; Arab population in the Land of Israel ,& rdquo ; including control of education , finances , services and other sectors & ndash ; everything except security and foreign policy . Neither Allon & rsquo ; s nor Begin & rsquo ; s proposals went beyond the debating stage , primarily because the Palestinians were only interested in turning the clock back to 1947 & ndash ; in other words , the elimination of Israel . Nothing caused them to abandon the & ldquo ; all - or - nothing & rdquo ; approach and consider pragmatic compromise , such as a & ldquo ; two - state solution & rdquo ; or a federation with Jordan . IN THE POLICY vacuum , the Israeli presence in these areas gradually and chaotically increased . Periodically , another attempt at change would start & ndash ; for example , in 1987 , then - foreign minister Shimon Peres negotiated secretly with Jordan & rsquo ; s King Hussein in London & ndash ; but this was another dead end . The Oslo Accords , signed in 1993 and accompanied by a White House extravaganza , marked the most sustained effort , including the creation of the Palestinian Authority , which governs more than 90 % of the Palestinian population . To Israelis , Oslo was presented as embodying the & ldquo ; land for peace & rdquo ; formula , leading to a permanent status agreement and presumably two states within five years . The term & ldquo ; end of conflict & rdquo ; was used frequently , and the demographic threat to Zionism seemed to be averted . But to Palestinians , PLO leader Yasser Arafat marketed Oslo as a short - term tactical measure , to be renounced once the benefits had been realized . The massive UNRWA & ldquo ; refugee & rdquo ; support system remained intact , and the incitement and terrorist attacks continued and even increased in the form of mass terror directed , or at least approved of , by Arafat . Israelis recognized that on the other side , nothing had changed . And Israel & rsquo ; s improved relations with the so - called & ldquo ; international community & rdquo ; evaporated quickly when the IDF moved to counter Arafat & rsquo ; s war . The next effort to end the stalemate took place in 2005 , when prime minister Ariel Sharon unilaterally & ldquo ; disengaged & rdquo ; from Gaza and from two small civilian locations (& ldquo ; settlements & rdquo ;) in Samaria . Two years later , the Hamas terrorist organization took control of Gaza , followed by the acquisition of thousands of rockets and missiles , and the construction of massive terror tunnels . Sharon became incapacitated in 2006 , Israel failed to destroy the nascent Hamas war machine and discussion of further unilateral withdrawal from the West Bank came to a halt , particularly with the election of Benjamin Netanyahu in 2009 . But Netanyahu also understood the difficulties inherent in an infinite stalemate , leading him to support the initiative for unilateral annexation (& ldquo ; extension of sovereignty & rdquo ;). Details were not revealed and no official maps were made public , but the discourse focused on incorporating the major settlements and the strategic areas of Area C ( including the Jordan Valley ). However , the effort became mired in Israeli electoral politics as well as strong international opposition , and in 2020 , it was officially halted in the context of the Abraham Accords . As this brief history demonstrates , after 55 years , the temporary status quo , with all of its weaknesses , continues . At the same time , the default option of a single political entity between the Mediterranean and the Jordan River , with roughly equal populations and the implications for Zionism , also remains & ndash ; and as noted , is the Palestinian & rsquo ; s favorite . These problems will not disappear , and as Israelis , we have the obligation of continuing to look for better options . A Strategy of Political RealismWith this dismal history , it is not surprising that many Israelis have given up . The long drift and its implications are not included in the election platforms of any of the main parties , and that is precisely the problem . It plays into those who are not exactly supporters of Zionism and see the evolution of a one - state framework as the best path to their objectives . To move forward by learning from the failures , a new strategy is long overdue , anchored in political realism and concrete Israeli interests , as distinct from hope , faith or ideology . Realism requires the careful analysis of the relative potential costs and benefits of different options , including continuing the status quo , based on security ( military capabilities , defensible borders ); Zionism and demography ( a viable Jewish majority ); and the perception of Israel from the outside ( public diplomacy and image ). On this basis , and unlike Oslo and the other experiments , I suggest starting from the end point & ndash ; Israel & rsquo ; s urgent need to determine our borders . Once we examine , debate and then decide on the areas we need to hold and where Israel & rsquo ; s and Zionism & rsquo ; s interests are best served by exiting , the paths necessary to reach this outcome can be considered . Beyond maintaining the integrity of Jerusalem , particularly the Old City and its sacred sites , the core pragmatic requirement is to maximize security and minimize control over and responsibility for the Palestinian population . In Israel today , about 80 % identify as Jewish as compared to 20 % Arabs . Among the world & rsquo ; s other nation - states based on a dominant ethnic , religious or linguistic group ( as distinct from inherently multi - cultural countries ), a minority of 20 % is already considered quite high , particularly when that minority has recidivist claims . Borders that would reduce the Jewish majority to 60 %, for example , would add significant strains to the Zionist Jewish Hebrew - speaking core . In examining other basic elements , there is already wide agreement on the need for full control of the strategic Jordan Valley and the main access corridors to defend it . Similarly , the settlement blocs adjacent to the pre - 1967 Green Line and within the separation barrier are readily incorporated into Israel , without including a large Palestinian population . There are also a few exceptions & ndash ; sizable settlements located in non - contiguous areas , such as Ariel and Beit El . But with populations of 20 , 000 and 7 , 000 , respectively , abandoning them is politically unrealistic . THE REMAINING issues concern the future of Area C & ndash ; which , under the Oslo accords , remains , at least in theory , under full Israeli control . Extending from Jerusalem east to the Jordan River , and north along the Jordan Valley , this land is important strategically , and has a small Palestinian population .& nbsp ; However , in the absence of a coherent policy , the Palestinians and their European support team are busy creating their own settlements & ndash ; precisely in order to disrupt Israeli requirements . The Palestinian & ldquo ; villages & rdquo ; that have been created in key locations like Khan al - Ahmar and Masafer Yatta , including fictitious backstories to persuade outsiders of their authenticity , are attempts to foreclose the option of retaining this territory . The more time that passes before deciding which parts of Area C should become part of Israel , the more difficult this process will become . The final dimension concerns perceptions . For some Israelis and Diaspora Jews , the most painful aspect of the post - 1967 status quo is the image of the Jewish state as an occupier , portrayed as brutally denying the Palestinians their own state . This is the basis for campus Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions resolutions and other denunciations of Zionism . The question is whether demonization would decrease significantly if the status quo was replaced with declared borders , particularly if these were recognized by the United States and at least some European countries . Would the Jews who have become hostile to and alienated from Israel because of the 55 - year & ldquo ; occupation & rdquo ; move to a more positive relationship with Israel ? On these questions , the evidence is unclear . The image of Palestinian weakness and victimization , in contrast to Israeli power , will not change regardless of any moves in the West Bank , and Israel will still be blamed . However , there is reason to expect that among those not committed to the Palestinian cause and anti - Zionism , the demarcation of borders would reduce the hostility . Nevertheless , based on a realistic assessment , the potential change in perceptions of Israel based on the setting of clear borders and an end to the temporary post - 1967 & ldquo ; occupation & rdquo ; should not be considered a deciding factor . In summary , while the results are far from certain & ndash ; and changing the status quo after 55 years will be difficult to accomplish , particularly in the face of intense ideological opposition & ndash ; the greater danger to Israel and Zionism comes from continued drift and chaos . & nbsp ; The longer we allow the illusion of temporary arrangements to fester , the more difficult it will be to deal with the results . ■ The writer is emeritus professor of political science at Bar - Ilan University and president of NGO Monitor . His latest book , Menachem Begin and the Israel - Egypt Peace Process : Between Ideology and Political Realism , was published by Indiana University Press .