Lines of freshly planted trees . Israeli flags , each at a different height on a stick above where a tree will one day grow , fly in the wind . It & rsquo ; s been six months since the Nova festival massacre took place here . On each flag is printed the name of one of the victims who was killed here , or in the nearby forests and fields , during the massacre . Meanwhile , the sound of artillery can be heard in the distance . By this late point in the day , the military had already announced that it was rotating forces out of Gaza . A sense of change , noted by the passage of half a year , can be felt here . Time continues to pass , and each day ends , but there is no closure for the families , who are left in limbo while Hamas continues to hold 134 hostages . On Sunday morning , families of the Nova victims gathered at the site . They talked of the feeling of abandonment they experienced , especially from the government ; they talked of pain , of getting treatment for that pain . They spoke about how this massacre could have been prevented , and how difficult it is to return to life . Right then was when the news broke that a mourner & rsquo ; s wreath was sent to the family of 19 - year - old hostage Liri Albag , blaming the government for the lack of a deal . The Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) later said it suspected Iranian forces were behind it . It was as if the news hammered home just how deeply wrong it is that this is still the situation six months later . How can it be that six months into the war the hostages are held just across the border from where I am standing ? Gaza is not very large , so wherever you stand along the border , you are always a few miles from the coast and not far from Rafah . There are 134 people across the border ; IDF units are being withdrawn . Israeli citizens were promised that & ldquo ; there won & rsquo ; t be any more Hamas & rdquo ; when the war was over , and that military pressure would lead to the release of the hostages . From the border , it is obvious that neither has come to pass . For me , Sunday was a return to a border I & rsquo ; ve been to many times since October 7 , as well as before the war as well . Back in 2005 , before the Disengagement from Gaza , I visited Netzer Hazani , a settlement in Gaza near Khan Yunis . Border region became a target for HamasAfterward , this border region became a target for Hamas ; rockets rained down on Sderot . This a place where there were many wars : in 2009 , 2012 , 2014 , and briefly in 2021 ; it always carried dangers . At Kibbutz Nirim , a resident told of threats dating back to the 1970s . There was always a threat from Gaza , but there were also times of peace and efforts at coexistence . The sense on Sunday , at Nova , is that all that is broken . The festival grounds today are made up of various memorials , like the new section of trees that will grow and an area of photos of the victims , staked in the ground so that each victim has their area . Besides the few monuments , such as some benches and individual make - shift memorials people have left , or graffiti on a concrete bunker , much remains as it would have been before the festival . There are trees with no undergrowth ; there is a dirt road running down Route 232 , which runs parallel to the border . It was on this dirt road , from the festival grounds to the main road , where cars would have been stacked up on October 7 after the festival organizers stopped the music and told everyone to run and hide . I look around among the trees and think about the thousands of people fleeing ; their desperation and confusion . The area is familiar to me from the many videos that came out that morning ; the bathrooms where people hid , the bar where people were massacred , the fields that people tried to drive through and flee through , the rescuers & ndash ; like the Davidians & ndash ; who came and saved people . Six months later , this conjures up the ghosts of the past , the spirits that roam this forest now . Nearby Kibbutz Mefalsim had almost 1 , 000 residents on October 7 . Like Kfar Aza , it was a place people wanted to live . The residents in many of these communities say that these kibbutzim were 95 % heaven and 5 % hell & ndash ; before October 7 . Today , many of them are empty and lack residents & ndash ; proud , peace - loving people who were evacuated . At Mefalsim , there is a sign supporting the & ldquo ; Kaplan & rdquo ; protesters , the anti - Netanyahu camp . These kibbutzim are proud of their heritage . In a small building housing the archive of Mefalsim , there is a photo of the bolt - action rifles acquired by the Jewish state via Czechoslovakia in 1948 that helped defend Israel . On October 7 , the members of the security team , using modern rifles , defended this community successfully from the terrorists . In many cases , the terrorists assigned groups of 30 - 40 men to attack each border community . When they didn & rsquo ; t succeed in some places , there was no second wave . When they did succeed , such as breaking into Kfar Aza , waves of men came from Gaza to loot and murder . In Sderot , terrorists shot upon entry , firing bullets at the streets , targeting the police station in a battle that went on for hours into the night . The building eventually burned down . Residents had to hide indoors for several days amidst fear that infiltrators were still inside . Eventually , the city of 30 , 000 was evacuated . Six months later , it recovered a lot : many residents returned , and there were even traffic jams downtown . But the signs of war remain & ndash ; soldiers stand at the city entrances , checking cars . In Ofakim , around 30 minutes away from Gaza by car , one particular neighborhood saw an intense gunfight ; more than two dozen people were killed in different incidents . In total , around 50 residents of the city were killed , some in a bus for retirees that was traveling to the Dead Sea from Ofakim through Sderot . The bus was attacked , and the people were killed . Police officers in Ofakim were killed as well . In one neighborhood , the terrorists attacked several homes . Residents helped defend the city and eventually , the terrorists were hunted down . Back on the border with Nirim , the small , 240 - person community , it is quiet , but eerily so , like a ghost town . The kibbutz minimarket has been reopened , and the customers are mostly soldiers who come over from units stationed nearby . Several green parrots inhabit a tree , apparently escaped pets . Other former pets are wandering around , including a cat that wouldn & rsquo ; t stop following me . Wild dogs had infiltrated from Gaza on October 7 , following the marauding looters . In contrast to Sderot and Nova , fields of memories , Nirim is almost deserted , the burned homes on one side of the kibbutz unchanged since October 7 , cleared on October 10 and 11 of bodies . In the background , like a whisper , ring concerns about what comes next in Gaza , with the IDF decision to pull out Battalion 98 , though the military remains steadfast in its goals , holding as a stark symbol of a lack of strategy , a symbol that haunts these roads . I drive back along the 232 , the same road the terrorists would have driven on ; it is quiet today . Six months ago , this was a road of death . No matter how much the fields are full of green today , and the orchards of oranges are pregnant with fruit , this place will always hold the massacre it witnessed .& nbsp ;