The Biden administration has become increasingly concerned that the increasing conflict and rocket exchanges between Israel and Hezbollah could expand through the region , anonymous US officials told CBS News on Friday . An official said that the administration had been working toward lowering the risk that US troops face in Syria , Iraq , and Jordan .& nbsp ; Additionally , diplomatic advisor Amos Hochstein is heading to Israel on Monday with the reported purpose of trying to de - escalate tensions before they spread throughout the region . IAF strikes deeper into LebanonSome of the US officials told CBS that they interpreted the deepening IDF strikes in Lebanese territory as a preparatory measure for a sweeping assault . This , the officials worry , could start a war with Lebanon that Israel would require US support to win . & nbsp ; Other officials told CBS they were concerned that , in response to the deepening strikes , Hezbollah would escalate attacks , resulting in an unintended war . The rocket exchanges on the northern border are also creating new barriers in pushing for a hostage - ceasefire deal , the CBS report added . A senior Biden administration official said , " The most important thing about the hostage release and ceasefire deal that ' s on the table now is that if it ' s achieved , it can have an impact in the north [ of Israel ], so that is an opportunity for us to be able to bring this conflict to a full close ."" There has to be an agreement that allows Israelis to return to their homes in the North with security guarantees that it is not Oct . 6 of Hezbollah & hellip ; sitting right on the blue line ," the official added . Inflaming tensions & nbsp ; After senior Hezbollah official Sami Taleb Abdullah was eliminated in a strike , Hezbollah increased its rocket attacks against Israel . Approximately 250 rockets were launched on Wednesday towards northern Israel , disrupting civilians trying to partake in the holiday of Shavuot .& nbsp ; Abdullah is the most senior member of Hezbollah to be eliminated since October 7 ." The powerful elimination worries Hezbollah members . They now understand that the IDF knows much more about them than we do . Additionally , the operation indicates that Hezbollah ' s field security is not airtight and that the organization ' s intelligence system has been penetrated to such an extent that we were able to eliminate such an important sector commander . The IDF managed to infiltrate their networks and systems and identify the right people for elimination ," said Professor Amatzia Baram , suggesting that this also impacts the leader of the terrorist organization .