Masa Israel Journey , a leader in global Jewish and Israel - focused programming , is set to solemnly commemorate Remembrance Day with a ceremony at Yad L & rsquo ; Shiryon in Latrun , Israel on Sunday . The ceremony is expected to bring together over 5 , 000 attendees and countless viewers worldwide , making the event the largest English - language ceremony of its kind , dedicated to honoring the fallen soldiers of Israel and victims of terror . This year & rsquo ; s observance of Remembrance Day holds particular significance amidst profound grief and shock following the October 7 Massacre , ongoing conflict , and a concerning surge in global Antisemitism . Under the resonant theme & ldquo ; We Are One ,& rdquo ; the ceremony aims to serve as a powerful reminder of the mourning of Jews worldwide , and the resilience needed to rebuild and nurture hope . Stories of valor and sacrifice were set to be shared during the ceremony , highlighting fallen Masa alumni such Staff - Sergeant Omer Balva , an American - born IDF soldier in the Nahal Brigade , who was killed on the northern border from Hezbollah fire , and Sergeant Rose Lubin , a Border Police officer from Atlanta , Georgia , who was killed in a stabbing attack in east Jerusalem . Rose fought and defended Kibbutz Sa ' ad on October 7 . Omer ' s father , Eyal , will read the Kaddish prayer on behalf of the bereaved families .& nbsp ; Family members of Nathan Leor Hai , originally from France , who was tragically killed on October 7 , have been invited to light a commemorative torch during the ceremony , that will also see the participation of many bereaved families and representatives from the Israeli government and Knesset . The ceremony is also set to pay tribute to Captain Denis Krokhmalov - Veksler , Dr . Daniel Levy , Lucy , Maia and Rina Dee Z " L , and the victims of the terror attack in the Amia , Jewish Center in Argentina . Additionally , the program includes a mass prayer for the safe return of the hostages , including Andrei Kozlov , a Masa alum from Russia who remains captive in Gaza after being kidnapped at the Nova music festival . Among the distinguished guests that are set to be present at the event are government representatives such as Minister of Strategic Affairs , Ron Dermer , and Cabinet Secretary of the Government of Israel , Yossi Fuchs , alongside prominent Jewish leaders like Chairman of the Jewish Agency , Major General ( res .) Doron Almog , Acting CEO of Masa Israel Journey , Yael Sahar Rubinstein , Senior VP of Global Operations & amp ; Director General of JFNA Israel , Rebecca Caspi and CEO and Director General of The Jewish Agency for Israel , Amira Ahronoviz , alongside Masa Fellows and alumni . The ceremony will be broadcast on the Jerusalem Post website .& ldquo ; We Are One people , wherever we are ,& rdquo ; emphasized Yael Sahar Rubinstein .& ldquo ; Our Remembrance Day is essential to Israel and the Jewish people ,& rdquo ; she added . & ldquo ; This ceremony is for us to focus on the heroes , cherish the world they left behind , and try to be worthy of their sacrifice . May their memory be a blessing & rdquo ;. Major General ( Res .) Doron Almog added , & ldquo ; We will remember the fallen of Israel ' s battles with respect , pain , longing , and gratitude .& rdquo ; Masa Israel Journey , founded in 2004 by The Jewish Agency and the government of Israel , has provided over 200 , 000 young people from more than 60 countries with immersive , long - term educational experiences in Israeli society , culture , politics , and history .& nbsp ;