Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has promised to allocate an additional NIS 14 million to advance work on a project & ndash ; dubbed & ldquo ; sovereignty & rdquo ; or & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; road & ndash ; that would link the E1 section of the Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim settlement with Jerusalem .

& ldquo ; This is a significant breakthrough in advancing the issue ,& rdquo ; Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim Mayor Benny Kashriel said in a statement on the matter posted on the city & rsquo ; s website .

The project , also called the & ldquo ; Fabric of Life & rdquo ; road , is considered essential for the development of E1 , where Israel is slated to build 3 , 412 homes in a move that would vastly expand Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim , which is the third - largest settler city in the West Bank , after Modi & rsquo ; in Illit and Betar Illit .

The E1 project has been largely frozen for close to three decades because Palestinians and the international community consider it harmful to the feasibility of a contiguous future Palestinian state .

The US , excluding the Trump administration , had also historically objected to the project .

Israel has argued that the issue of contiguity is best addressed by an efficient but separate road system , including this one , that would allow direct Palestinian traffic between Ramallah and Bethlehem that skirts the E1 blocs , while Israeli travel between Jerusalem and Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim would also be made easier .

Critics of the project have accused Israel of & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; for its promotion of a road that separates Israeli and Palestinian traffic .

The municipal notice about the project stated that there would be & ldquo ; a separate road for Palestinians in the E1 area ,& rdquo ; which would distinguish between Israeli and Palestinian traffic so that & ldquo ; Palestinian vehicles could pass without traveling through the Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim bloc , near the Jewish settlements .& rdquo ;

It noted that & ldquo ; at the political level , the road would connect Jerusalem and Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim and allow Jewish settlement construction in the E1 area .& rdquo ;

The municipality added that it would ease traffic congestion and eliminate the need for checkpoints .

The road would then exit from Eizariya - Abu Dis to the tunnel under the a - Zaim checkpoint , and vehicles would travel on a separate road toward Hizma - Ramallah , the municipality said .

Yamina party head Naftali Bennett had initially promoted the project in March when he served as the defense minister .

Kashriel said he had campaigned and pushed Netanyahu to allocate more funding , a move that bore fruit only this week , with a conversation between Kashriel , Netanyahu , Transportation Minister Miri Regev and Finance Minister Israel Katz , both of the Likud Party .

Prior to the meeting Kashriel sent Netanyahu a letter in which he accused him of dragging his feet on the issue , noting that he had promised to pave the road three years ago at a Likud faction meeting in the Knesset . Then it was determined that the road would be paved in 2020 . Again in August , a pledge was once more given with respect to the road , and yet , Kashriel noted in his letter , he was still seeking funds for the project .

After receiving another pledge from Netanyahu for funds this week , Kashriel thanked the prime minister , along with Regev and Katz , for the help .

The left - wing group Peace Now charged on Wednesday that the project was part of Netanyahu & rsquo ; s reelection campaign .

& ldquo ; Netanyahu & rsquo ; s election campaign is costing Israel a very heavy price . Once again , he is using the election period to try to impress key Likud supporters by promoting a plan that could eliminate the possibility of a two - state solution . The planned road will allow Israel to cut the West Bank in two , build E1 and the separation barrier , and close the door on the possibility of developing a sustainable Palestinian state .& rdquo ;

In the last year , Netanyahu allowed for plans for 3 , 412 settler homes in E1 to be deposited . Peace Now has filed an objection to those plans .