A group of Israeli illustrators created a virtual exhibit and webinar in memory of the children lost in both Gaza and Israel during Israel ' s war against Hamas . The exhibit and webinar were initially created in 2021 after Operation Guardian of the Walls .& nbsp ; The gallery was initiated by the Parents Circle - Families Forum ( PCFF ) and is hosted through the American Friends of the Parents Circle , which works to educate the American public about the Israeli - Palestinian conflict .& nbsp ; The exhibit is intended to draw focus on the children living through war and to commemorate the innocent who lost their lives . Remembering the children amid the Israel - Hamas war & nbsp ; The illustrations used in the film were taken from the 2021 exhibit , in memory of 68 Israeli and Palestinian children who lost their lives in the war that year .& nbsp ;" Every illustration is in memory of a different child ," said Yuval Rahamim , co - CEO of the PCFF . The video created is not intended to take a stance on the war , such as a ceasefire or hostage release . Instead , it is intended to shed light on the complexity of the situation and to remind people , from all sides , of the innocent children who are drawn into the conflict against their will .& nbsp ; Driven to extremes " In wartime , we are driven to extremes . We view things as either black or white , but when doing so , we may easily forget to hold onto humanity ," said Rahamim . " Children remind us of our duty to remain humane because they are innocent . They are victims of war . We must ask ourselves if we should be justifying acts that are harming children for the sake of war ." The video exhibit was created to mark International Children ' s Day on November 20 . Video for International Children ' s Day by the Israeli Palestinian Bereaved Families for Peace ( CREDIT : Parents Circle - Families Forum ). It expresses the thoughts of both Palestinian and Israeli children who were participants in the 2023 joint PCFF summer camp that aims to bring the two groups together .& nbsp ;" The artworks [ made by adult artists ] & nbsp ; illustrate the impact of the war on the young souls ," said Robi Damelin , spokesperson and director of international relations for the PCFF ." This is the call to save all children and to spare them from the horrors of the war ," Damelin concluded .