Palestinian factions in the Gaza Strip have threatened to implement a gradual escalation against Israel if their demands are not met concerning reconstruction and the blockade on the Strip , complaining that Egypt is deliberately delaying the reconstruction process , according to Arabic media .
Sources from the factions told the Hezbollah - affiliated Al - Mayadeen on Monday that the Egyptians did not respond to a position paper presented by Hamas recently , claiming that Egypt is deliberately delaying the reconstruction process in the coastal enclave .
The sources warned that Hamas and the other factions in Gaza have set a deadline for the end of this year and would begin a gradual escalation starting next week . The sources added that Egypt refused the entry of a large Hamas delegation which was scheduled to visit Cairo at the end of November .
A " leading source " in Hamas told Al - Jazeera on Monday that the movement is studying options for an escalation with Israel , also expressing " strong dissatisfaction " with Egypt ' s behavior , saying that it has been reluctant in implementing its promises to Gaza . The source , pointing to what they called Israeli attacks on al - Aqsa Mosque and the tightening of measures against Palestinian prisoners , warned that this would " explode the situation ."
The Hamas source also claimed that Egypt has been preventing thousands of people from leaving the Gaza Strip without reason . " Egypt ' s behavior is considered an abandonment of its commitment to compel Israel in return for the resistance ' s commitment to the truce ," the source told Al - Jazeera .

On Tuesday , Hamas member Suhail al - Hindi told the Palestinian al - Ayyam news that the factions could no longer accept the tightening of the blockade on Gaza and the prevention of reconstruction , warning that they would not remain silent for long .
Unlike the Al - Jazeera and Al - Mayadeen reports , al - Hindi told al - Ayyam that Egypt had made great efforts as a mediator to resolve the various issues . The Hamas official stressed that the factions would " have their say " in the coming days .
Additionally on Tuesday , Palestinian media reported that the factions in Gaza had warned against Israel ' s procrastination in lifting the siege on Gaza , calling on mediators to assume their responsibilities " before it is too late ."
The reports indicated that the " gradual escalation " would likely begin with measures referred to as " popular resistance ," usually referring to incendiary and explosive balloons , as well as riots and demonstrations along the Gaza border .
The situation between Gaza and Israel has remained relatively calm since Operation Guardian of the Walls in May , except for a spike in clashes which took place in August .
Despite the claims that Egypt is holding up reconstruction efforts , it signed agreements with Qatar to supply fuel and basic building materials to the Gaza Strip in November .
The expressions of disappointment with Egypt come two weeks after Palestinian Islamic Jihad Secretary - General Ziyad al - Nakhlah attacked Hamas for accepting and facilitating economic aid approved by Israel , saying the aid provided by Egypt to Gaza was an attempt by Israel to " tame Gaza " with economic incentives .
" The resistance should not play the role of an agent in facilitating the work of citizens within the Israeli entity ," stressed the PIJ leader in an interview with Al - Mayadeen . " Israel wants to turn the West Bank and Gaza into warehouses for workers , and this is something we do not accept .
" Israel considers Gaza a time bomb that it wants to dismantle , and the new facilities come within this framework ," he said . " Everyone in the region is betting that the resistance will become afraid for privileges and facilities and will not enter into a war ."
Delegations from both Hamas and the PIJ held talks with Egypt ' s Intelligence Minister Maj .- Gen . Abbas Kamel in Cairo in October , discussing efforts to reach an extended ceasefire and prisoner swap . Mixed reports from the past few months have claimed both that significant progress was made on these two issues and that little to no progress had been made .