Former UK member of Parliament George Galloway posted denials of the October 7 atrocities in an X post on November 10 . The post alleged that Hamas terrorists never committed rape , only one baby had been killed & ldquo ; by persons unknown & rdquo ; and that anyone stating the contrary is a & ldquo ; war criminal .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; The foul allegations of rape have been dropped by the Israeli government ,& rdquo ; Galloway said . & ldquo ; The forty beheaded babies has been downscaled to one dead baby , not beheaded , and killed by persons unknown . Two thirds of Israelis killed on October 7 were military personnel . The killers of the remaining third are definitely to revealed to have been in part the Israeli Armed Forces themselves .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; Those with influence who spread propaganda to the contrary stand exposed as War Criminals and now much blood stains their character for ever . It is a spot which will not out . # Gaza_War # GazaCeasefire # GazaHolocaust # GazaHospital & ldquo ; [ SIC ] Testimonies from the survivors and recordings taken from Hamas have proven the atrocities that occurred during Hamas & rsquo ; s October 7 invasion of Israeli territory . The Israel Police & rsquo ; s Lahav 433 National Crime Unit collected the testimony of a young woman who survived the massacre at the music festival in Re & rsquo ; im , The Jerusalem Post reported .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; As I am hiding , I see in the corner of my eyes that [ a terrorist ] is raping her ,& rdquo ; one of the interviewed said of another victim while demonstrating the terrorist & rsquo ; s violent grasp with her hands . & ldquo ; She was alive beforehand ; she stood on her feet , bleeding from her back . But then the situation was that he was pulling her hair . She had long , brown hair ,& rdquo ; she was quoted as saying . Additionally , as reported by the Post , US Secretary of State Anthony Blinken confirmed that the images of babies being burnt and decapitated were authentic . The professional history of George GallowayGalloway was a member of the Labour Party from 1987 until 2003 when he was expelled for bringing the party into disrepute . The Guardian reported at the time that Galloway was charged with inciting Arabs to fight British troops , inciting British troops to defy orders , inciting Plymouth voters to reject Labour MPs , threatening to stand against Labour , and backing an anti - war candidate in Preston . Galloway had only been acquitted of the fifth charge . After his expulsion from Labour , he ran as an Independent Labour candidate from 2003 until 2004 . Following this , he became affiliated with the since - dissolved Respect Party until 2015 . In one of the most notable moves in Galloway & rsquo ; s political career , he declared Bradford an & ldquo ; Israel - free zone .& rdquo ; He was given a criminal caution for inciting racial hatred by West Yorkshire Police for this move , The Guardian reported in 2014 ." We don ' t want any Israeli goods , we don ' t want any Israeli services , we don ' t want any Israeli academics coming to the university or the college , we don ' t even want any Israeli tourists to come to Bradford , even if any of them had thought of doing so ,& rdquo ; The Guardian cited Galloway as saying .& nbsp ; Galloway later became a radio host for TalkRadio but was fired in 2019 for antisemitism after he claimed & ldquo ; no Israel flags on the cup & rdquo ; would be the consequence of the Tottenham Hotspur Football Club failing to make it to the Champions League . Tottenham , also known as Spurs , is a club strongly associated with the Jewish Community but is unaffiliated with Israel .