As swiftly as a hurricane , Israel & rsquo ; s Eurovision contestant , Eden Golan , shot up the betting tables from eighth place to the number two spot following her performance in the second semi - final at the 68th Eurovision Song Contest in Malmo , Sweden on Thursday night , in which she secured a place in the Grand Final , which will take place on Saturday . Although there were protests outside the arena and the 20 - year - old Golan was booed by as she sang & ldquo ; Hurricane ,& rdquo ; she also received thunderous applause , winning hearts around the world with her grace under pressure . Voters around the world enjoyed her performance enough to put her into the finals . The results of each country & rsquo ; s vote is meant to be secret , but RAI , the Italian broadcaster , briefly showed the detailed breakdown on screen which revealed that Golan had won 39 . 3 % of its country & rsquo ; s votes . RAI has since said that the results it released were " incomplete ." And here is a graphic of the televoting odds , showing Israel in first place : https :// eurovisionworld . com / odds / eurovision - teleWhether she will do as well in the Grand Final , in which the results will be determined by national juries from the participating countries as well as by fans from around the world , remains to be seen . Israel is now predicted to win the televote , with the oddsmakers giving Golan a 43 % chance of a televote win . But she is predicted to come in fifth in the jury vote , which will mean that she will ultimately finish second to the favorite , Croatia ' s Baby Lasagna with the high - energy song , " Rim Tim Tagi Dim ."& nbsp ; But her performance Thursday and the resulting score were a triumph for Golan and for Israel . Each shout from the crowd seemed only to enhance the preternaturally poised Golan & rsquo ; s performance , as she hit every note and dance move perfectly . Far more experienced performers might have cracked under the kind of pressure and distractions that Golan faced , but she tuned them out and did her best work to date . " I didn ' t hear the boos ," she said in a press conference following the semi - final . " I was completely focused . I felt no apprehension and no fear ." Sometimes a song is just a song and Eurovision is just a fun song contest that Israel tends to do well in , which it has won four times in the past . But not this year . Israel ' s journey through Eurovision conflictAt first , it wasn & rsquo ; t even clear that Israel would send a contestant because of the war that started following the Hamas massacre in Israel on October 7 . It was decided that the best choice would be to participate , but to use the song and the platform to acknowledge the tragedy . The shadow of the war hovered over the Next Star for Eurovision contest , as Shaul Greenglick , who appeared in early December , was killed in the fighting in the Gaza Strip . Greenglick , 26 , from Ra & rsquo ; anana , an officer in the Nahal Brigade & rsquo ; s 931st Battalion , wore his uniform to perform and sang the song & ldquo ; Blind Bat & rdquo ; by Hanan Ben Ari . The judges were enthusiastic about his performance , and he would have advanced to the next round . Golan , a polished and experienced performer , who was a child star in Russia , where she spent much of her childhood due to her father & rsquo ; s work , won the contest and Israeli Eurovision fans rejoiced . But even while Israelis were pleased with Golan , there were difficulties over the first song chosen by Israel , & ldquo ; October Rain ,& rdquo ; because it contained references to the massacre , which the European Broadcasting Union ( EBU ), sponsors of the contest , found too overtly political . It was eventually replaced by & ldquo ; Hurricane ,& rdquo ; which contains softer lyrics , but still seems to refer to recent events . The music video released with the song seemed to show Golan and dancers in a field like where the Supernova Music Festival , where almost 400 concertgoers and staff were killed on October 7 and another 400 were kidnapped , took place . The song by Avi Ohayon , Keren Peles , and Stav Berger , contains these lyrics in English , & ldquo ; Every day , I ' m losin ' my mind ... Dancin & rsquo ; in the storm / I got nothing to hide / Take it all and leave the world behind / Baby promise me you & rsquo ; ll hold me again / I & rsquo ; m still broken from this hurricane ,& rdquo ; with additional lyrics in Hebrew : & ldquo ; We don & rsquo ; t need big words , just prayers / Even if it & rsquo ; s hard to see / You always leave me one little light .& rdquo ; The costumes are sand - colored strips of cloth , very different from the usual body - baring , flashy Eurovision look , and were designed by Alon Livne and styled by Itay Bezaleli , that look like torn clothes or bandages and the dancers moved in a loose - limbed but focused way that was reminiscent of Batsheva choreographer Ohad Naharin & rsquo ; s Gaga technique . It isn & rsquo ; t a stretch to see the song as the words of a young woman who has lost the love of her life in the massacre looking back and honoring his memory . But it wasn & rsquo ; t only Israel & rsquo ; s song choice that raised the stakes this year . Thousands of artists , mainly from Ireland and Scandinavia , called for Israel to be banned and for artists to boycott the event , although none did . Malmo has a large Muslim population much of which , according to media reports , are particularly hostile to Israel . The Israeli government issued travel warnings for Israelis attending to the event and the head of the Shin Bet security agency , Ronen Bar , went to Malmo to personally supervise Golan & rsquo ; s security . Golan and her entourage were advised to stay in their hotel rooms at all times when not performing . On Thursday , protesters including climate activist Greta Thunberg demonstrated near the arena , accusing Israel of committing genocide and being an apartheid state . Not many people outside Sweden know that Thunberg & rsquo ; s mother , Malena Ernman , is a professional singer who represented Sweden in Eurovision in 2009 , finishing in 21st place . That was the year that Israel sent Noa and Mira Awad , a Jew and a Christian Arab , to compete . The duo finished in 16th place with their song , & ldquo ; There Must Be Another Way ,& rdquo ; which celebrates coexistence , although if her mother ever told her about that , Thunberg seemed to have forgotten on Thursday . Golan and the Israeli delegation had security like a head of state , with a motorcade comprised of dozens of cars accompanying her from her hotel to the venue . But Golan said in numerous interviews that she had felt only & ldquo ; good vibes & rdquo ; from her fellow contestants , although there were signs that not everyone was so accepting of her presence . During a press conference after she advanced to the final , a Polish journalist asked Golan , & ldquo ; Have you ever thought that by being here , you bring risk and danger for other participants ?& rdquo ; Told she didn ' t have to answer the question , Golan responded , nonetheless , & ldquo ; I think we & rsquo ; re all here for one reason , and one reason only . And the EBU is taking all safety precautions to make this a safe and united place for everyone , so I think it & rsquo ; s safe for everyone .& rdquo ; Rylan Clark , one of the BBC hosts of Eurovision coverage , has been doing interviews with contestants that he posts on TikTok , but he didn & rsquo ; t interview Golan in person , which won him praise from some , while others pointed out he did not personally interview every performer . Belgium ' s representative , Mustii , had the word " peace " written on his arm during his performance at the semi - final . The Flemish Broadcasting Authority in Belgium opened the Eurovision broadcast on Thursday night with a protest slide against Israel that said , " We condemn Israel ' s violation of human rights , which also harms the freedom of the press . Ceasefire now ." The Finnish singer , Kaarija , who represented his country last year with the catchy , & ldquo ; Cha Cha Cha ,& rdquo ; danced with Golan backstage as cameras rolled . The video was posted to social media by KAN , which sponsors and broadcasts Eurovision in Israel , and other places , but he later posted a disclaimer to Instagram that said , " I happened to meet Israel ' s Eurovision representative today , and a video was filmed of us . It was then posted on social media without my permission . Despite my requests for its removal , it has not been taken down . I would like to clarify and emphasize that the video is not a political statement or an endorsement of any kind ." Swedish singer Eric Saade performed in the opening of the first semi final with a keffiya wrapped around his hand , although political symbols are banned . A spokeswoman for the EBU said : " The Eurovision Song Contest is a live TV show . All performers are made aware of the rules of the contest , and we regret that Eric Saade chose to compromise the non - political nature of the event ." The EBU did not post footage of Saade to its social media accounts . Ireland & rsquo ; s Bambie Thug , who qualified for the final on Tuesday night , was required by the producers to remove pro - Palestinian messages from their costume when they performed . Others showed their displeasure over the participation of Israel in different ways . A Eurovision song contest viewing party at New York City ' s 3 Dollar Bill bar was canceled on Thursday after Golan advanced to the final . The " Queer - owned and operated Nightclub " apologized for scheduling the event and said that hosting the party did not align with their values . " We understand the concerns raised by our community regarding the need for boycott ," said the bar , adding the hashtag " never again for anyone ." The organizers of Eurovision Party London , one of that city & rsquo ; s largest and most popular watch parties , cancelled its event two months ago , citing Israel & rsquo ; s participation in Eurovision as the reason for the cancellation , and a number of other British venues followed suit . In Berlin , some bars cancelled their watch parties or turned them into events to support Palestinians in Gaza , but most of the parties are planned to go on as usual . One unabashed fan of Golan was Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who wished her well in a video message before her performance on Thursday night . In his statement , Netanyahu said , " Eden , I want to wish you success , but you have already succeeded . You not only face Eurovision in a proud and impressive way , but you successfully face a wave of antisemitism while standing and representing the State of Israel with respect ." In any case , Golan will not be the only Israeli performing in the final : Jerusalem - born Tali Golergant , who is representing Luxembourg , won a place after she performed her song , & ldquo ; Fighter ,& rdquo ; in the first semi - final on Tuesday night . An Israeli who has lived all over the world , she has been a professional singer for seven years already , even though she is only 23 . Some survivors of the massacre at the Supernova Music Festival have used the phrase , & ldquo ; We will dance again ,& rdquo ; to express hope for the future , and Golan showed us on Thursday night that we will sing again , too . The Jerusalem Post staff contributed to this report .