Jonathan Glazer , the director of the Best International Feature Academy award - winning Holocaust film , " The Zone of Interest ," was " vile " and " auto - antisemitic " for saying during his award speech that [ he ] belonged with those who " refute [ both ] their Jewishness and the Holocaust being hijacked by an occupation ," Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism Minister Amichai Chikli ( Likud ) said to the Jerusalem Post on Monday . Glazer was the " next useful idiot who stuck a knife in the back of his people and in the backs of women who were raped and then shot in the head afterward , in children who were slaughtered in their beds , in entire families who were burned alive ," Chikli said ." There is no forgiving such vile types & ndash ; auto - antisemitic Jews , from Judith Butler until last night ' s idiot , but there is no reason to get excited over the phenomenon , it has accompanied us for generations ," Chikli said . Chickli alludes to the history of Jews & nbsp ; Chikli continued , " As one of Israel ' s greatest leaders , Yigal Alon , said , ' Amongst the Jews there are always groups of people whose past weighs on them , and they are the first to conduct plastic surgeries to their spiritual - national physiognomy , in order to adapt it to the latest cosmopolitical fashion . Granted , it is true that Jews had multiple reasons to tire from ' bearing the burden ', but they [ also ] had and have all of the reasons to treat with respect their past and themselves , to be as they are in the annals of culture . Because only he who has courage to be himself , contributed the largest contribution to universal culture ." Hadash - Ta ' al MK Ahmad Tibi later on Monday commended Glazer , saying in a press conference ahead of his party ' s weekly meeting on Monday that they he was " brave " and had exhibited " high morals " in mentioning the " dehumanization " amidst the " images of atrocities " coming out of the Gaza Strip . Likud MK Danny Danon , who served as Israel ' s Ambassador to the UN , also addressed the comments ." This is an important film . It ' s a shame that a Jewish director took advantage of the stage that he was given to make antisemitic remarks comparing the Holocaust to the war of no - choice that was forced upon us . This is not new - during the Holocaust also there were Jews who acted against the Jewish people ," Danon said . In a daily briefing , Ms . Ilana Stein , Spokesperson at the National Public Diplomacy Directorate , also addressed the issue ." To think that we would exploit the Jewish catastrophe that is called the Holocaust where six million people died in the most awful ways , is despicable ," Stein said ." Hamas showed how it massacred us . And this is what we are fighting against . A massacre . A terror organization that says that it wants to be from the river to the sea , and that means that they want the whole state of Israel to be free of Jews . Does that remind you of somebody , saying that a whole area should be free of Jews ? That is what they are saying . And for that to happen they want to kill and murder and slaughter and rape so that this whole area will be free of Jews . So , this is the right context to look at the Holocaust and October 7 , [ at ] some similarities that they have ," Stein said . Glazer & rsquo ; s German - language film is about the family of the commandant of Auschwitz living on the death - camp grounds . After thanking the Academy , his cast and producers , and Auschwitz - Birkenau State Museum , Glazer read from a written statement , although he was clearly emotional , as he spoke about the war in sentence fragments , saying , & ldquo ; All our choices were made to reflect and confront us in the present , not to say that what they did then , rather than what we do now . Our film shows where dehumanization leads , at its worst , it shaped all of our past and present . Right now , we stand here as men who refute their Jewishness and the Holocaust being hijacked by an occupation which has led to conflict for so many for so many innocent people .& rdquo ; At this point , Glazer was interrupted by applause , and after a pause he went on to say , & ldquo ; Whether the victims of October the 7th in Israel or the ongoing attack on Gaza , all the victims of this dehumanization . How do we resist ?& rdquo ; Hannah Brown contributed to this article