The Palestinian Authority accused Israel of carrying out & ldquo ; extra - judicial executions ,& rdquo ; and called on the United Nations to provide protection for the Palestinians .
Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ), meanwhile , called on Palestinians to step up the & ldquo ; resistance & rdquo ; against Israel , in response to the killing of a gunman near Jenin and a woman who tried to stab police officers in the Old City of Jerusalem early Thursday .
In the village of Burkin , near Jenin , soldiers shot and killed 22 - year - old Alaa Zyoud , a member of PIJ & rsquo ; s al - Quds Brigades .

Hours later , police officers shot and killed Israa Khuzaimia , a mother of three from Kabatiya , also near Jenin . The woman was shot while she tried to carry out a stabbing attack near the Temple Mount in Jerusalem .
The PLO accused Israel of killing the two & ldquo ; in cold blood ,& rdquo ; and called on the international community to assume its responsibilities toward & ldquo ; the enforcement of international and humanitarian laws in the occupied territories .& rdquo ;
The Palestinian Foreign Ministry condemned & ldquo ; in the strongest terms the two heinous field executions committed by the occupation forces and its police in both Jerusalem and Burkin .& rdquo ;
According to the ministry , the killings are the direct result of Prime Minister Naftali Bennett & rsquo ; s evasion of the Palestinian issue during his speech at the UN General Assembly earlier this week .
The killings are also & ldquo ; an extension of a long series of criminal field execution orders issued by the political and military echelon in the occupying state to its soldiers to facilitate the process of shooting at the Palestinians ,& rdquo ; the ministry said in a statement .
The ministry also condemned settler assaults on Palestinians in the Masafar Yatta area near Hebron , claiming they were carried out & ldquo ; under the supervision and protection & rdquo ; of the IDF .
& ldquo ; The ministry holds the Israeli government headed by Naftali Bennett fully and directly responsible for these crimes and their serious repercussions on the situation in the entire region ,& rdquo ; the statement read , urging the UN to provide international protection for the Palestinians .
It also called on the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to establish an investigation committee & ldquo ; for Israeli crimes and violations .& rdquo ;
The Palestinian Prisoners Club revealed that the IDF arrested 54 Palestinians in the Jenin area since the beginning of September , most of them after the escape of the six security prisoners from Gilboa Prison earlier in the month .
The Prisoners Club accused Israel of imposing a policy of & ldquo ; collective punishment & rdquo ; against Palestinians in the Jenin area , including the families of the six escaped inmates . The six were recaptured by Israel Police .
PIJ mourned the death of its member , Alaa Zyoud , and pledged to pursue the fight against Israel . It said the increased violence in the West Bank was & ldquo ; an authentic expression of the will of the Palestinian people who do not accept surrender , and whose resolve is not frustrated by conspiracies .& rdquo ;
Responding to Thursday & rsquo ; s killings , Hamas said that & ldquo ; the armed resistance and the comprehensive confrontation with the occupation is capable of stopping its aggression and expelling its settlers from our occupied land .& rdquo ;