Gal Gadot will soon be able to conduct a barbershop quartet & ndash ; or rather , a beautyshop quartet & ndash ; in her living room , as she and her husband , Jaron Varsano , announced on Wednesday that she had given birth to their fourth daughter . Hours after giving birth , Gadot posted photos of herself and her newborn on Instagram , writing : " My sweet girl , welcome . The pregnancy was not easy and we made it through . You have brought so much light into our lives , living up to your name , Ori , which means & lsquo ; my light & rsquo ; in Hebrew . Our hearts are full of gratitude . Welcome to the house of girls .. daddy is pretty cool too ."& nbsp ; & nbsp ; Ori joins her sisters , 12 - year - old Alma , six - year - old Maya , and nearly three - year - old Daniela .& nbsp ; The UK newspaper , the Daily Mail , broke the news of her pregnancy in December when it published photos of her in Los Angeles with a visible baby bump . Gadot ' s involvement following October 7The Wonder Woman star has been uncharacteristically quiet recently on her Instagram account , which has 109 million followers , as she took care of herself in the months leading up to the birth . & nbsp ; This was in sharp contrast to the early days of the war following the October 7 massacre by Hamas , when she uploaded dozens of posts and stories calling for the release of the hostages . She was also involved in organizing a screening of the compilation film of the Hamas atrocities for Hollywood A - listers last fall .& nbsp ; Gadot most recently starred in the Netflix spy thriller , Heart of Stone , and will appear next year as the Evil Queen in a live - action version of Snow White .& nbsp ; In 2022 , Gadot spoke to InStyle magazine about her love of motherhood , saying , & ldquo ; I love giving birth . I would do it once a week if I could . It ' s so magical . And I always take epidurals , to be fair , so it ' s not so painful . Just the moment you feel like you ' re creating life , it ' s incredible ." While she acknowledged that it wasn & rsquo ; t always easy to balance motherhood with stardom , she said , " That is the badass thing I do : the juggling between my family life and my acting career ."