The & ldquo ; Maslul Batuah & rdquo ;( Safe Route ) operation , which set out to stem the tide of crime in Arab communities , spanning joint efforts of nine governmental offices , has recorded impressive strides since its initiation eight months ago . Last year , the violence in the sector exploded to a dramatic peak of 130 murders & ndash ; on average , a person was murdered in Arab society every three days . Weapons seemed to flow freely in Arab towns , in what to locals felt like a lawless land , but since the Safe Route crackdown , the police say they have turned the tides and restored law and order . But are the operation & rsquo ; s effects really felt in Arab communities as the police claim ? In the enforcement of the operation , mostly in the North , 3 , 871 suspects were arrested , thousands of weapons were seized , and 1 , 153 indictments were filed for weapons offenses across Israel . Since the beginning of the year , the police have increased their activity against weapons crimes in Arab communities . In the past half - year ( January - June 2022 ), the police across the country arrested 3 , 871 suspects for crimes of armed robbery and shooting , and about 92 % of the suspects arrested were from the Arab community . Also , in the first half of 2022 , at the end of the police investigations , 1 , 153 indictments were filed against those accused of shooting and assault offenses all over the country . About 88 % of the indictments filed for the offenses of shooting and possession , trafficking and use of weapons were filed against defendants from Arab society . In addition , 31 illegal buildings were destroyed , a total of NIS 10 million was confiscated , and , as part of the fight against road crime , over 8 , 000 traffic fines with a total value of over NIS 5m . were distributed .& ldquo ; Since the beginning of Operation Safe Route , the Israel Police has recorded significant achievements in dealing with crime and violence in Arab communities , in dealings with crimes of extortion through threats and seizures of firearms held against the law .& rdquo ; Leon Hirsch & ldquo ; Since the beginning of Operation Safe Route , the Israel Police has recorded significant achievements in dealing with crime and violence in Arab communities , in dealings with crimes of extortion through threats and seizures of firearms held against the law ,& rdquo ; said Ch .- Supt . Leon Hirsch , head of the Operational Coordination Section in the Police Intelligence Division .& ldquo ; The Israel Police has also recorded significant achievements in filing indictments for these crimes which constitute a significant nuisance to the public in Arab communities . Since the operation began , there has been a much higher demand for police services , and we see this in the responses we receive from the residents ,& rdquo ; he added . Seizing weapons , arresting criminalsDuring this period in 2022 , tens of thousands of weapons , explosives , ammunition , grenades and other illegal items were seized in towns of Arab communities , including 770 handguns , and more than 100 submachine guns and 350 guns of different types , thousands of items of ammunition , as well as hundreds of grenades , weapon parts and explosives & ndash ; a significant increase when compared to the same time period in 2021 . The operation has been carried out so far in 19 localities , including Haifa , Umm el - Fahm , Nazareth and Rahat . After almost half of 2022 has passed , data shows that the extensive operation launched by the police to eradicate violence resulted in success & ndash ; at least partially : until June 5 , 31 people in the Arab community were murdered in Israel , including four women , compared to 50 murdered in the first half of 2021 ( up to May 27 to be exact ). In total , according to police data , since the beginning of the year , 42 people have been murdered throughout the country , of which , as mentioned , 31 were from Arab society . So far the police have solved only 12 murder cases in the Arab sector this year . The police attribute this decrease in the number of murders in the sector to the operation . Murder on the riseDespite the effort police have put forward , some remain skeptical about the actual effect they have , as murder cases in Arab society continue to rise , hitting 55 murders up until July , according to data from independent NGOs . WHILE POLICE actions are at the forefront of the operation , it is much larger in scope when looked at from a broader lens . Efforts of the Finance Ministry and income tax officials , for example , set out to combat money laundering and illegal loans , which in turn entangle many civilians .& ldquo ; Many Arab towns in the North don & rsquo ; t even have a bank or any other means of legally handling financial affairs . Left out of options , they turn to organized criminal syndicates ,& rdquo ; Ola Najami - Yousef & ldquo ; Many Arab towns in the North don & rsquo ; t even have a bank or any other means of legally handling financial affairs . Left out of options , they turn to organized criminal syndicates ,& rdquo ; Ola Najami - Yousef , vice president of the Abraham Initiative NGO , which tracks crime in Arab communities , told the Magazine in an interview . The issue , she explained , is much larger than a simple lack of policing . The Arab communities have long faced neglect from all governmental offices , from finance to education . Residents are often left to their own devices , something that leaves a large vacuum for criminals to fill . Arabs were viewed as a security threat themselvesBefore Safe Route was initiated , Arabs were viewed as a & ldquo ; security threat themselves . Even though a lot of these issues were well known to the government , nothing was done , until now .& ldquo ; The way Arab society is viewed and discussed has changed ; we & rsquo ; re no longer social pariahs , and a wide range of efforts is now being undertaken to give Arab communities what they rightfully deserve as Israeli citizens ,& rdquo ; she said . THE PROBLEM with crime in the communities often stemmed from this larger perspective that painted Arabs as a collective threat . Even if a plain citizen got entangled with criminal elements on account of a lack of services , he had no one to turn to when things turned sour , a situation that not only left an opening for crime on its own but also severely hurt the communities & rsquo ; trust in the police , further increasing the reign of criminals . In towns like Nazareth , where Najami - Yousef lives , you could hardly notice police presence , and towns like Jisr e - Zarka didn & rsquo ; t even have a functional police station , even though the building for it existed . Now , police are making efforts to increase their presence , understanding that the lack of trust from locals severely impacts how well they could combat crime effectively . The change is certainly being felt . Jasser & rsquo ; s police station , which had been vacant until now , is fully staffed , and towns like Rahat and Nazareth are seeing more patrol cars on the streets . Najami - Yousef , a resident of Nazareth herself , even stated that & ldquo ; you could even hear less gunfire in Nazareth these days .& rdquo ; To further the bond with the community , the Abraham Initiative has organized meetings between teens and police officers from local stations . The change , Najami - Yousef said , is slowly starting to take effect . But when looking at the still high murder rate which claimed the life of 11 Arabs in the last month , one could question the effectiveness of this change .& ldquo ; These things take time ,& rdquo ; Najami - Yousef explained . & ldquo ; It may take up to five years until we would see a practical change in murders .& rdquo ; Najami - Yousef even theorized that the latest chain of murders could be a direct response to police efforts , with criminal organizations feeling the pressure and , in turn , attempting to clean house . Police officials claimed , on the other hand , that the operation has attained significant achievements , and that the decrease in the number of murders is felt & ldquo ; everywhere & rdquo ; in the Arab sector . One of the reasons for this , according to them , is that budgets are now being diverted to combating violence in the sector , making it possible to strengthen the forces stationed in the Arab communities and also recruit Arabs directly to the police .& ldquo ; In the last five years , 800 Muslims have been recruited to the Israel Police . Today the police can react quickly when cases of violence occur ,& rdquo ; a police official said .& ldquo ; Along with the continuation of enforcement and its deepening , in order to deal with the phenomenon and completely deter it , a multisystemic treatment and a deep - rooted change beyond police enforcement are needed ,& rdquo ; said Ch .- Supt . Hirsch . & ldquo ; The Israel Police will continue the determined fight in Arab society and everywhere else , all in order to maintain public peace and security .& rdquo ; ■