Deep underground , dozens of meters beneath the surface , in a classified location in the Negev lies a unique facility storing large quantities of fuel for emergencies , N12 reported on Wednesday . According to N12 ' s report , the underground fuel cache ' s goal is to provide continuous operational energy for Israel even during war and in the most challenging scenarios imaginable . It is one of the largest fuel tanks in Israel and is located in a unique facility in the entire Middle East . Moshe Kaltzyn , CEO of the Energy Infrastructure Directorate : " We are distributing fuel to every corner of the country . We can provide fuel immediately , in a process that takes only a few hours . We have millions of liters here , enough for the long term . You can be confident with the quantity we have here ." According to the National Emergency Authority ' s attribution scenario , during an expected war in Israel , up to 48 hours of blackouts , covering 60 % of the country ' s territory , are anticipated . Energy backup systemEstimates suggest that during combat in the northern arena , Israel ' s gas facilities will be shut down , and electricity supply will switch to operate on the basis of fuel and coal . The vast amount of fuel in the reservoir is expected to suffice for an extended emergency period . Israel ' s backup system includes storage capabilities above and below ground throughout the country . When needed , fuel will be distributed to all energy consumers in the country - power stations , Ben Gurion Airport , and fuel stations . If fuel imports to Israel are completely halted during a war or extreme scenario , the electricity supply will need to be managed with these existing reserves - undoubtedly a challenging task . " This fuel here can last us for many years . The temperature throughout the year is 22 degrees , which effectively preserves the shelf life of the fuel ," explains Moshe Elimelech , facility manager . Energy Minister Eli Cohen : " We have energy reserves underground and above ground , including gas , coal , and various fuels , and we are working to provide a responseben gu as needed . The rumors of long weeks or months of power outages are baseless , and the likelihood of that happening is remote ."