In his first interview in Hebrew media since the outbreak of war , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu insinuated that threats by protesters against his government & rsquo ; s judicial reforms to stop serving in the IDF reserves played a part in Hamas & rsquo ; s decision to attack Israel on October 7 .& ldquo ; The refusal [ to serve ] is a disaster & ndash ; and created illusions for our enemies ,& rdquo ; the prime minister said during the interview on Channel 14 . Netanyahu also criticized current protesters calling for an election .& ldquo ; I say to the protesters & ndash ; get it together . This is the time for unity , this is the time for greatness . Their goal is to bring down the government , and every time their excuse is different . I do not think that it reflects a majority of the people . I turn to the majority of the people and say & ndash ; this is the time for unity ,& rdquo ; the prime minister said . Addressing the four different warnings by the IDF during the period of the judicial reforms that the social upheaval they had created was a danger to national security , Netanyahu said he himself had made similar warnings in real time and did not need the IDF warnings to tell him that . The prime minister added that the IDF assessments prior to October 7 was that Hamas was & ldquo ; deterred , and therefore he was unaware of the threat of the massacre . Netanyahu added that while he believed that every person who was in a position of authority on October 7 bared & ldquo ; some responsibility ,& rdquo ; now was not the time to form a national committee of investigation , since it would & ldquo ; add to the [ heavy ] load & rdquo ; of running the war . Netanyahu criticizes Gantz and EisenkotThe prime minister also voiced harsh criticism of Benny Gantz and fellow National Unity MK Gadi Eisenkot for leaving the government on June 9 , after joining it days after the October 7 massacre . Gantz and Eisenkot said that they had decided to depart after the prime minister began taking into account personal political considerations while making decisions regarding the war .& ldquo ; Gantz and Eisenkot did something that is not done & ndash ; leaving the government in war time ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said . Asked about their claims , the prime minister responded , & ldquo ; And they do not have political considerations ? My consideration is to ensure the safety of Israel .& rdquo ; Netanyahu invited other parties currently in the opposition to join the government in Gantz and Eisenkot & rsquo ; s place . In an odd moment in the interview , Netanyahu repeated a misleading claim that the bill to draft haredim into the IDF that is currently being processed in the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee ( FADC ) will bring & ldquo ; many thousands & rdquo ; of haredi men into the IDF . The bill , as it currently stands , includes a gradual increase of haredi draftees per year , from the current 1 , 000 or so per year to approximately 35 % of each graduating class & ndash ; roughly 5 , 000 men & ndash ; per year in 2036 . The numbers would not rise significantly in the coming years , and the sanctions for haredi yeshivot that do not meet their quotas are directed against the yeshivot themselves but not at the individuals who avoid the draft . This is widely regarded as insufficient to lead to real change . Netanyahu said that he expected opposition leaders MK Yair Lapid and Gantz to support the bill , as it passed its first reading under their government in 2022 . However , a significant portion of Knesset members from Netanyahu & rsquo ; s own Likud party , the entire opposition , and the Defense Ministry have all said that the law was no longer relevant to the IDF & rsquo ; s needs post October 7 . Netanyahu & rsquo ; s remarks on the haredi bill were surprising , as many members of the Likud , including those who have not expressed opposition to the bill as it currently stands , have said that it was only a preliminary version . This led to widespread belief that Netanyahu himself was open to a more sweeping version of the bill , closer to what many see as the bare minimum to meet the IDF & rsquo ; s needs & ndash ; to reach a 50 % draft rate of haredi men within five years . The haredi parties are unlikely to accept such a version of the bill , and may opt to attempt to topple the government rather than pass it . The issue of the haredi draft is thus viewed as a litmus test for the prime minister & ndash ; whether he acts in the national interest or gives preference to the survival of his coalition .& nbsp ;