Two separate incidents that took place in the West Bank over the past few days underlined the discrepancy between the Palestinian Authority & rsquo ; s rhetoric in public and its actions on the ground .
& ldquo ; The Palestinian Authority is a real Jekyll and Hyde ,& rdquo ; a Ramallah - based Western diplomat remarked this week with reference to the inconsistency . & ldquo ; The Palestinian Authority & rsquo ; s rhetoric towards Israel is bad , but its actions on the ground , especially the security coordination with the Israeli security authorities , are good .& rdquo ;
The diplomat & rsquo ; s remark is shared by many Palestinians who are familiar with the inner workings of the PA .
In the first incident , two Israeli women in their 40s were spotted by Palestinians late at night driving their car alone inside al - Ama & rsquo ; ri refugee camp at the entrance to Ramallah and its twin city , El - Bireh .
The camp is considered a stronghold of Palestinian militants belonging to various groups , including those opposed to PA President Mahmoud Abbas and his ruling Fatah faction .
The PA security forces are often reluctant to enter al - Ama & rsquo ; ri to avoid friction with the groups . In this case , however , as soon as the PA security forces were informed about the presence of the Israeli women in the camp , they rushed to the scene and safely escorted them out and handed them over to the IDF .
The second incident took place in the PA - controlled part of Hebron , a city traditionally known as a stronghold of Islamist groups , particularly Hamas and Hizb ut - Tahrir ( Party of Liberation ). A bus carrying IDF soldiers that accidentally entered Hebron was safely escorted by PA security forces out of the city . No one was hurt and minimal damage was caused to the bus as a result of rock - throwing by a small number of Palestinians .
The two incidents could have ended in a tragic way , were it not for the intervention of the PA security forces . Had any of the women or soldiers been harmed , this would have resulted in a serious deterioration in the security situation on the ground and renewed tensions between the new Israeli government headed by Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and the PA .
Such an escalation would also have dealt a severe blow to the Biden administration & rsquo ; s efforts to rebuild confidence between Israel and the Palestinians with the hope of reviving the stalled peace process .
The Biden administration has endorsed a policy that seeks to bolster the standing of the PA as a way of countering the rising popularity of Hamas . The Americans want the Israeli government to follow suit by engaging with PA officials and refraining from unilateral moves , including the eviction of Arab families from their homes in the east Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah .
Indeed , Bennett & rsquo ; s government and the PA leadership appear to be moving toward some form of rapprochement . In addition to the continuing security coordination , Israeli and PA ministers recently met for the first time in several years .
Moreover , the government has agreed to increase the number of permits for Palestinians who wish to work in Israel , and , according to Palestinian sources , senior PA officials whose VIP cards were confiscated by the previous government of Benjamin Netanyahu have gotten them back .
Some Palestinians maintain that the security coordination between the PA security forces and the IDF never stopped , not even when Abbas and other Palestinian institutions claimed that they had suspended all ties with Israel , including in the security field .
The incidents in Ramallah and Hebron were not the first of their kind . Several cases involving Israeli ( Jewish ) citizens who were seen by the Palestinians inside Area A of the West Bank have been returned safely to Israel , thanks to the efforts of the PA security forces .
Entry into this area , which is controlled exclusively by the PA , is forbidden to all Israeli citizens . Israel , however , does not stop Arab - Israelis from entering Area A .
Most of the cases involving Israelis caught in Area A are not publicized , probably in order to avoid embarrassing the PA . Each time Palestinians learn that the PA security forces & ldquo ; rescued & rdquo ; Israeli citizens caught in Area A , they accuse the Palestinian leadership of & ldquo ; collaboration & rdquo ; and serving as & ldquo ; subcontractors & rdquo ; for the Israeli security establishment .
But the security coordination is not a one - way relationship benefiting Israel alone .
Abbas was quoted a few years ago as telling a group of Israelis who visited him at the Mukata presidential compound in Ramallah that security coordination [ with Israel ] is & ldquo ; sacred .& rdquo ;
Although Abbas did not elaborate , it & rsquo ; s obvious that the Palestinians , too , enjoy the fruits of this coordination .
First , the PA and Israel have a common enemy in the West Bank & ndash ; Hamas . Abbas is well aware that without Israel & rsquo ; s security presence in the West Bank , Hamas and another Iranian - backed proxy , Palestinian Islamic Jihad , would pose a direct threat to the PA .
Second , the security coordination ensures the continued flow of funds to the PA from the Americans , Europeans and other international parties .
In a bid to further curry favor with the Western donors , including the Biden administration , Abbas and senior PA officials have recently indicated their readiness to return to the negotiating table with Israel under the auspices of the Quartet members & ndash ; US , European Union , United Nations , and Russia . PA officials who are talking about their dissatisfaction with the Bennett government are actually sending a message to the Biden administration that it needs to get more involved in the Israeli - Palestinian conflict .
YET WHILE Palestinian security officers are & ldquo ; rescuing & rdquo ; Israelis who accidentally enter Area A , and as the security coordination appears to be continuing in full force and effect , the rhetoric of the PA and Fatah toward Israel remains as toxic as ever .
This is precisely why many Palestinians and Israelis are confused about the real intentions of the PA leadership .
On the one hand , the PA is telling Palestinians that it wants to prosecute Israelis for & ldquo ; war crimes & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; ethnic cleansing & rdquo ; before international forums , including the International Criminal Court . The PA is also telling Palestinians that there is no difference between the Bennett government and the Netanyahu government , especially regarding the policy of settlement construction and the & ldquo ; Judaization & rdquo ; of Jerusalem .
On the other hand , this is the same PA that is allowing its ministers and security officials to hold meetings with their Israeli counterparts .
Similarly , many in Israel still cannot figure out whether the PA is an ally or an enemy . The PA & rsquo ; s deeds and rhetoric suggest that it is both an ally and an enemy . It is an ally when it comes to working with the IDF in maintaining security and stability in the West Bank . It is an enemy when it comes to the fiery rhetoric of PA officials and media outlets .
& ldquo ; The Palestinian Authority has always excelled in sending conflicting messages to both the Palestinians and the Israelis ,& rdquo ; remarked a veteran Palestinian journalist from Ramallah . & ldquo ; The Palestinians have long become used to the duplicity of the Palestinian leadership .& rdquo ;
The PA & rsquo ; s actions on the ground may be good for Israel in the short term . These actions place the PA on the side of the good guys in the war on terrorism . In the long run , however , the anti - Israel rhetoric emerging from Ramallah is further radicalizing Palestinians . The PA , in other words , is driving more Palestinians into the welcoming arms of its own rivals , Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad .
The apparent rapprochement between the PA and the Israeli government and the Biden administration & rsquo ; s policy of & ldquo ; strengthening & rdquo ; the PA are critical for the continued survival of Abbas and his cohorts . But this approach comes with a cost . The closer Abbas moves toward Israel and the US , the more he loses points with the Palestinian street .
The Bennett government and the Biden administration may help the 85 - year - old Abbas hold on to power , but there & rsquo ; s nothing the Israelis and Americans can do to help him regain the confidence of his people .
Abbas & rsquo ; s decision to cancel the parliamentary election , which was supposed to take place on May 22 , and the recent unprecedented massive security crackdown on Palestinian political activists , journalists and social media users have severely undermined the credibility of the PA leadership .
At this stage , it & rsquo ; s clear that the widespread discontent with the Ramallah - based leadership does not pose an imminent threat to the PA . The PA security forces remain loyal to Abbas , and the number of people willing to take to the streets to demand & ldquo ; regime change & rdquo ; is declining every week .
If and when the peace talks with Israel resume , Abbas is sure to face a radical reaction from the Palestinians . Under the current circumstances , the likelihood of marketing any agreement with Israel to the Palestinian public is zero .
This statistical nonstarter is the direct result of the PA & rsquo ; s decades - long demonization of Israel , which remains one of the major obstacles to moving forward with any peace process .