MK Meir Cohen from Yesh Atid , former welfare and social services minister , was interviewed recently by Anat Davidov and Udi Segal on 103FM radio about the war in Gaza , about the departure of New Hope chairman Gideon Sa ' ar from the coalition with Benny Gantz Gantz , and on whether Yesh Atid would join the current coalition . He also criticized the conduct of the government and the Knesset by stating , " There are debates here that you can ' t believe someone would raise during a war ," and said of the families of the abductees , " I see that it has become routine ." Regarding the hostage deal taking shape , Cohen said that he " sees the families , their story becomes routine . This is the great danger that we are in the overall picture of another thing called captives , and the world continues as usual . I sincerely hope that this will not happen , and we are doing everything we can to prevent it ." When asked if he was afraid that the hostages would never be released , he answered , " Yes . I don ' t know if the government will give them up , but the government ' s conduct and the lack of determination among some of the people I talk to lead us to the perception that there is not enough determination . Where there is not enough determination , that a state abandons 134 hostages & mdash ; that ' s [ moral ] bankruptcy ." He reveals that " There is looting of the state budget . It ' s unbelievable that someone thinks that in the great distress we are in , they can pass such a budget ." He added , " We , as Yesh Atid , say that all we need to invest everything in order to return the hostages . Everything must be done to bring them back , and if we have to pay a heavy price , we should ." Further into the interview , Cohen was asked if the prime minister and his government could afford to stall the return of the hostages . Cohen answered , " I don ' t know . We are talking to them and making our voices heard . I hear determination from one side , even within the families of the hostages . We keep saying we won ' t end the efforts . Our people probably die in Gaza every week ." The factors that influence Netanyahu ' s major political decisions & nbsp ; Cohen also stated , " I am realizing that Gantz and Eisenkot do not have a significant influence on the government ," and said regarding Sa ' ar , " I think that what Gideon did was his decision but he should not have done it . It is his sole right to ask to be a cabinet member . What is worrying is that I think that the prime minister will accept him into the cabinet , but he will also bring Smotrich and Ben - Gvir along with him ." Since we are witnessing the crazy circus , the lighting of bonfires in our districts by the security minister , I am very afraid of how the reduced cabinet will look . I realize that both Gantz and Eisenkot no longer have a significant influence on the conduct of the government , and I call on them to leave . Up until now , they are an oxygen balloon for Netanyahu and the failed government ." When asked if there was an option for them to join the current coalition , Cohen said , " We are no longer talking about entering the government . We were the first to want a government , but we warned against very radical and messianic elements . Even two months ago , we approached the prime minister and said , ' Any deal you offer , we will back it up .' Regarding Israel ' s political reputation , Cohen stated , " I hear the voices in the Knesset as if we are in our own utopian world . To be clear , the Americans , the English , and the Germans are not telling us not to enter Rafah , they are not telling us not to continue with the elimination of Hamas , but they are asking what will happen after the operation . Netanyahu is not ready to answer that . If we want positive international attention and legitimacy , let ' s have a dialogue , not fight with the Americans . The prime minister suggests they are against us and only he knows how to stand up to them . It is unnecessary and it puts us at risk ".