Chen Peiper , born in the Netherlands , is an esteemed Israeli jewelry designer and teacher , and over the last two decades has been a glass sculptor . As an artist , she is very sensitive to and perceptive of the surrounding realities . In her career , Peiper & rsquo ; s works have been on show at numerous solo and group exhibitions in Israel ( in 2023 at the Tel Aviv Bienniale of Crafts and Design at the Eretz Israel Museum ), The United States , and Europe . She works with different techniques , using materials such as gold , silver , stainless steel , aluminum , and copper . When designing sculptures , she combines glass with metal . Her works reflect her personal experience ( as in her solo show & ldquo ; Fish Plus & rdquo ; in 2020 ) and social exposure . In 2022 , Peiper participated in the Venice Art Bienniale , presenting Covitrum & ndash ; 18 glass anonymous faces in various masks worn during the pandemic . There , she also showed the powerful Refugees , dedicating it to the African emigrants .& nbsp ; The artist & rsquo ; s latest work , New Life , is centered on the motif of Israeli flags , which expresses Peiper & rsquo ; s deep concern for the situation in Israel , during last year & rsquo ; s protests and the ongoing war . In an interview with the Magazine , Peiper said that she made aliyah during the Yom Kippur War , and she shared her memories from that crucial - for - Israel time . This was in 1973 , when Peiper was nearly 27 years old , and the State of Israel was only 25 . Almost as peers , they grew up together . Before we move on to your current work , as a sea lover I must ask you about your solo exhibition from 2020 about the underwater world , & lsquo ; Fish Plus .& rsquo ; Why fish ? It & rsquo ; s related to my childhood in Holland . My parents used to have a summer house by the sea , and I was always on the water : in a sailboat , a rowboat ; I was very sporty , and the water was very important to me . I was living in it . So I made sculptures of what I remembered . But also one of the sculptures was inspired by a drawing of my grandson , which he made when he was six years old . All the sculptures were in the fusing technique ; I used transparent and hand - painted glass , combined with silver , copper , and iron .& nbsp ; A magical experience for the viewers and a nostalgic trip into your past . Speaking of your past , when we first met , in December , you said that you moved to Israel 50 years ago & hellip ; Yes , in 1973 , in the middle of the [ Yom Kippur ] War . I made aliyah at the age of 26 , almost 27 . I was already after my jewelry design studies at Rietveld Academy of Art , in Amsterdam . I had been already working . We ( my husband and our one - year - old daughter , Tamar ) were already on our way to Israel when the war started . Were you on the plane ? No , my husband said that the plane went too quickly , and he wanted us to have an adventure , so we went on a cruise , on a ship to Israel . We started it from the south of France . Just as we were about to begin our trip , some people told us there was a war in Israel . Then , we wanted to make aliyah even faster . The war didn & rsquo ; t stop you from this move ? No , when you want to live in a country , a war is not a reason to go away . You stay here ; you don & rsquo ; t leave the country because of a war . And why did you want to make aliyah in the first place ? My husband is Israeli , born in Tel Aviv . He has lived in Holland for 10 years , and we met at the Academy of Art . We could have stayed in Holland , but it was clear to us that we could not live in both countries , and we decided that we wanted to live in Israel .& nbsp ; Following this decision , you arrived in the middle of the Yom Kippur War ... It happened like that . We moved in with Gidi & rsquo ; s , my husband & rsquo ; s , parents in Ramat Hasharon , which made things much easier .& nbsp ; How was Israel back then ? How do you remember Israel during the Yom Kippur War ? Cities without men . Tel Aviv , Hod Hasharon , completely without men . For a few months , it was like that . Life was quieter . There was nobody on the streets . It was a real war for us in the center of Israel . Now during the war people continue their lives , shops are open , and people are sitting at coffee shops ; back then , the streets were empty . But also the streets looked different . Now everything is modern ; in 1973 there were clouds of sand on the roads of Ramat Hasharon . And how different was the society of Israel back then in comparison to today & rsquo ; s ? It & rsquo ; s hard for me to say . I jumped into the group of Gidi & rsquo ; s friends . They all were in the army and all talked about the army , so it was difficult . And they were shy to speak in English to me at that time . But in general , you could have visited a friend or a neighbor anytime . Now you must call or text to set up a visit . [ Back then ,] the doors to the apartments were always open .& nbsp ; From what you are saying , it sounds like people were closer to each other . As we speak , I & rsquo ; ve just realized that you and the State of Israel are almost the same age . Since 1973 , the very young state of 25 years and you , almost 27 years old , as peers you grew up together . I have never thought of this , but this is true , yes . [ She laughs .] And after the Yom Kippur War , how do you recall Israel ? We all worked very hard . We wanted to build something , and we felt we did .& nbsp ; Do you mean your life or also Israel ? Also Israel .& nbsp ; So after the war , you started to work in your profession , as a jewelry designer ? Yes , at home . People have come especially to me . I looked at how a person behaved and what he [ or she ] liked , and based on that I was designing .& nbsp ; Before shifting to glass sculptures ( which is your main focus right now ), for 40 years you were creating jewelry , showing it at professional exhibitions in the Netherlands , Israel , and the US , and you were also teaching how to design .& nbsp ; Yes , I taught design at a technology center for jewelry in Tel Aviv ( 1985 - 1995 ), and in 1993 at a special program for Bedouin girls and young women who were making traditional Bedouin jewelry but wanted to learn about other approaches ; and ( in the years 1990 - 2000 ) at Beit Berl art college in Ramat Hasharon , where I was head of the jewelry department .& nbsp ; So you had an established professional position , and suddenly in 2002 you went to Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design to study glass design . What triggered that ? I was looking , for a long time , for something else . I hoped that if I had another material , it would be more interesting for me and more creative . My husband , who has been always very supportive of me , saw in a newspaper that there was an opening of a new department of glass , as a second degree , at Bezalel . I applied and got accepted . It was two years of hard work , but it was very interesting to me to learn various techniques of working with glass . It was wonderful , in the middle of my life to start with a new material ! But I have never forgotten about my metal . The metal always helps me to design the inside of the glass . It adds the feeling . I have combined it with glass . What attracts you to glass ? It can be transparent and doesn & rsquo ; t have to . You can do everything with it , move it in all the directions you want to . Another thing , jewelry is also art , but when you create in gold it is [ displayed ] in a glass box ; people can & rsquo ; t touch it . And I like it when people can touch a sculpture .& nbsp ; It changes the experience of the viewers . With your art you reflect on your personal experience , but also on group and social exposure , such as war , the issue of African refugees , or the pandemic . In 2022 , at the Venice Art Bienniale , you showed [ the installation ] Covitrum ( COVID and vitro , & lsquo ; glass & rsquo ; in Latin ), a series of glass sculptures & ndash ; unrecognizable portraits , without distinction in gender or skin color . These faces were covered with different masks worn during the pandemic . Yes , the only distinction was that I made 13 adults and five children ( representing my five grandchildren ), together 18 . I chose this number because of its gematria ; the number 18 means chai & ndash ; & lsquo ; life ,& rsquo ; in Hebrew .& nbsp ; Why did you want to incorporate a number important in Judaism , in a way taking away from the universality of this project ? It was very important to me because it is a very powerful number . Each head was covered with a different mask . In these masks I put the story . A mask is a tool of pretense and protection , and it allows introspection . It gives a space to reveal or hide the identity and feelings . One of them was transparent , and I called it & lsquo ; Read my lips .& rsquo ; But there was also the Israeli flag , the Venice flag , and a rainbow LGBTQ flag mask .& nbsp ; On view in Italy , there was also your sculpture Refugees , dedicated to people who fled their countries across the sea in inhuman conditions . A huge unresolved issue of African emigrants often losing their lives on the way to Europe was expressed in your powerful sculpture . I wanted to show the colors of the sky and the sea and , in between , human beings . The sea was their last refuge . They were mostly Black people , so I used the colors black and red ( as blood ). You can see that they are all on the boat , but one is outside & ndash ; didn & rsquo ; t make it .& nbsp ; You responded to this tragic reality with extreme sensitivity . Your latest sculptures are also very socially engaged . In December 2023 , at a group exhibition & lsquo ; The Colors of Camouflage ,& rsquo ; at the Periscope Gallery in Tel Aviv , you presented two series of work : & lsquo ; Upside Down ,& rsquo ; in camouflage military colors , and & lsquo ; New Life ,& rsquo ; with motifs of Israeli flags in glass , flowing in different shapes . In both cases , you & rsquo ; ve connected a very smooth and elegant movement of glass attached to very simple and basic metal food cans . What was the idea behind this concept ? And did you make this series of sculptures before the war or during the current war ? I started before the war . During the war , my feelings about it were even stronger . I am very connected to my grandsons , what they do . Do they serve in the army now ? Yes , three of them . I am very proud of them .& nbsp ; So the colors came from your grandsons ? Yes , although not directly . I was worried , in general . The flags , at first , were connected to the last year & rsquo ; s demonstrations in Israel . I wanted to show the sadness of thousands of people being with a flag during the protests . I was concerned about what would be with this country and what was going on . I am still , I am worried . What do think will be with Israel ?& nbsp ; The future will not be easy . But I think that we are very strong , and we have to be very strong .& nbsp ; We are talking after many months of war , and you are wearing a & lsquo ; Bring Them Home & rsquo ; necklace [ in solidarity with the hostages ], and you are still saying that we are very strong ? This is a very scary and ugly fairy tale . But , of course , we are very strong ! Otherwise , we & ndash ; you and me & ndash ; would not be here today . So how do you see the future of Israel now , also with the new wave of antisemitism around the world ? When I listen to my daughters , Tamar and Dafna , they are worried . When I listen to my grandsons , they are full of life and they believe that everything will be fine .& nbsp ; Why did you connect flags with simple cans ? They are real cans , reused . By adding a flag to them , there is something new , and maybe there will be something new in the region , not the same as it was before . Whatever happens in Israel , I express it in my art , both my jewelry and glass sculptures . But the first reason why I used the cans was practical & ndash ; the metal [ material ] and its form . Then I realized that I could use different shapes of cans , which gave me new feelings . When I saw these sculptures at the exhibition , looking at the Israeli flags made of glass , I thought that this was Zionist art . Is it okay to call your art Zionist ? I am very pleased to hear it ! Do you think there is a place for something like Zionist art , that the Israeli artists will want to go in this direction ? This is interesting , what you are asking . When I look back at the exhibition ( and this is very important , to look back and check with yourself what you did ), I ask myself if it was only the obsession of flags . But it wasn & rsquo ; t . In every piece , I put my feelings inside .& nbsp ; How would you name these feelings ? New life .■ On April 18 at 7 p . m ., at Beit Yad LaBanim cultural center , 2 Hamahteret Street , Ramat Hasharon , a group show will open which will include one of Peiper & rsquo ; s new works , View of Israel .& nbsp ; The artist & rsquo ; s website : chenpeiper2 . wixsite . com / chen