Israel raised eight billion dollars in bond sales , setting a record with the highest - ever demand for an Israeli international bond offering , the Finance Ministry & rsquo ; s Accountant General & rsquo ; s office announced on Wednesday . Demand for the offering , launched on Tuesday , reached $ 38 billion , and some 400 investors from 36 countries participated , the ministry added . The bonds were sold as part of the Finance Ministry & rsquo ; s strategy to fund the government & rsquo ; s activity as the Israel - Hamas war continues to impact Israel & rsquo ; s economy . Selling bonds allows Israel to raise money to cover current budgetary needs by essentially borrowing money from those who buy the bonds . A government bond represents a debt owed by the government to the person who buys the bond . The government must repay that debt in the specified time frame and interest to the buyer . Thirty - year , ten - year , and five - year bonds were sold in the issuing . The bond offering results showed that Israel would pay 135 basis points over comparable 5 - year US Treasuries , 145 basis points over 10 - year Treasuries , and 175 basis points over US 30 - year bonds . This means that Israel will pay higher interest rates than comparable US bonds issued over a similar time frame . Smotrich and Rothenberg celebrate change in bond salesRothenberg and Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich celebrated the record - breaking debt issuance , pointing to the high demand as an important expression of foreign investors & rsquo ; faith in Israeli markets . This expression follows a tumultuous time for Israel & rsquo ; s economy , as government bonds have underperformed the most widely - followed global emerging market bond index by just over ten percentage points over the last six months , along with Moody & rsquo ; s cut Israel & rsquo ; s credit rating last month . Moody & rsquo ; s downgraded Israel & rsquo ; s credit rating to & ldquo ; A2 & rdquo ; from & ldquo ; A1 & rdquo ; in early February , citing material political and fiscal risks for the country due to its war with Hamas .& ldquo ; While fighting in Gaza may diminish in intensity or pause , there is currently no agreement to end the hostilities durably and no agreement on a longer - term plan that would fully restore and eventually strengthen security for Israel ,& rdquo ; Moody & rsquo ; s said at the time . This lower credit rating is an indication of a higher risk of investing in Israeli securities . This risk impacts the interest paid for Israeli bonds . A higher - risk investment pays a higher interest to compensate investors for this risk . According to Accountant General Yali Rothenberg , the majority of similar bond offerings will be on local markets , such as in shekel bond sales . These offerings may also impact inflation in Israel . When Israelis buy bonds , it reduces the amount of money in circulation in the Israeli economy and so may slow inflation . Israel & rsquo ; s inflation was above the target rate when the war began , but currently , Inflation is moderated and stands at 2 . 6 %,& rdquo ; said Bank of Israel Governor Amir Yaron on Tuesday . & ldquo ; Expectations for inflation for the coming year have risen slightly . Uncertainty still prevails regarding the effects of the war on inflation processes ,& rdquo ; he added .