The prestigious brand JACK KUBA launched its women ’ s swimwear collection for the summer of 2024 . The diverse collection includes shapewear swimwear , swimwear in trendy designs that come in a variety of cuts , swimwear in bra sizes for an ideal fit of the cup size and circumference , and a collection of beachwear and accessories for a perfect total look ! Shapewear swimwear - Look one size smaller in 60 seconds ! The most famous and best - selling shapewear swimwear in the world . Made with innovative technology , from a fabric registered as a patent that shapes the body three times more than any other slimming swimsuit , toning and shaping the body while maintaining maximum comfort and a feeling of self - confidence . For every woman , in any size , up to size 56 ! The shapewear swimwear comes in the widest and richest variety of shades , designs , and innovative cuts . The built - in bra in the swimwear gives maximum support to the chest and shapes it in a flattering and natural way . Maximum comfort , doesn ’ t restrict movement , and looks like a normal swimsuit ( hidden slimming technology ). The items you can find have a variety of cuts and patterns : one - shoulder , low necklines , shape - enhancing , thick or thin straps , see - through , and more . Colors : floral patterns , delicately spotted , and bright shades , among them : red , green , purple , and royal blue , along with the eternal classic black . Expert tip : don ' t be tempted to take a size less but exactly your size . Stretch swimwear - The new generation of swimwear . The collection is made of innovative technological fabric , with exceptional elasticity , soft , pleasant , and seamless for maximum comfort , and dries completely within an hour and a half . The swimwear is offered in two sizes : XS / S , M / L and in four fashionable colors : classic black and tie - dye with green , blue , red , and orange . Glam swimwear - The swimwear that will give you a particularly glamorous look . The collection corresponds with the most sought - after trends for summer ’ 24 and looks like part of a festive evening look . Comes in a wide variety of cuts : bottom - bikini , Brazilian , thong , and high cut . Bra - with or without underwire , straps or strapless , triangle cut , and balconette . You can choose a set or choose underwear and a top and combine them . In addition , you can find complete swimsuits and swimsuits with cut - out openings . Using Lurex fabrics , spotted print , zebra , floral , and print that looks like crochet . A combination of black and white , a combination of gold , a combination of accessories - gold hoops . Colors - trendy yellow , red , black , and white combinations , spotted , green , floral , purple , metallic , and more . Beach clothes - Everything you need to complete a perfect total summer look for the pool and the beach . The beach clothes are made from quality fabrics : chiffon , lace , crochet , and cotton . The collection offers a huge selection of kaftans , one - size chiffon fabrics ( suitable for sizes from extra small to extra - extra - large ), as well as a lace collection that includes a dress , shorts , skirts , and long pants , crocheted beach dresses , and a huge selection of chiffon dresses . Colors - spotted patterns , zebra , color combinations : black and white , blue and purple , light blue and pink . Each swimsuit can be matched with a bra according to personal taste , or purchased as a matching set . Consumer prices : Shapewear swimwear - from NIS 800Glam swimwear - from NIS 300Stretch swimwear - NIS 578Beach clothes - from NIS 237Available at the JACK KUBA chain of stores and website .