Egypt continued mediating a ceasefire between Israel and Palestinian Islamic Jihad to end Operation Shield and Arrow on Wednesday , even as the latter continued a barrage of rockets towards Israeli cities in the south and Tel Aviv area .& ldquo ; The campaign still isn & rsquo ; t over ,& rdquo ; Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a statement to the media . & ldquo ; We say to the terrorists and those who sent them : We see you everywhere ; you can & rsquo ; t hide .& rdquo ; However , a senior diplomatic source said that Israel is & ldquo ; ready for a ceasefire ; we did what we needed to do & rdquo ; in Gaza .& ldquo ; A ceasefire will be judged only by actions and not by words ,& rdquo ; another senior diplomatic source said . Following over 100 IDF strikes and over 300 rocket attacks mostly from Palestinian Islamic Jihad of Gaza earlier Wednesday , Egypt reached out to Israel to say PIJ wants a ceasefire , The Jerusalem Post confirmed from multiple sources . Further , top IDF officials have recommended accepting a ceasefire in light of major perceived accomplishments of the current operation & ndash ; though publicly the IDF said it does not comment on such issues . However , as late as 8 : 00 p . m ., Islamic Jihad and the IDF had each unleashed another significant round of attacks against one another . Foreign Minister Eli Cohen confirmed to KAN News that a ceasefire proposal was sent by Egypt and is under consideration by the defense establishment . The senior diplomatic source said that Egypt is the central player in ceasefire talks , despite reports in Arab media that Qatar and the UN were involved . Rocket barrage launched at southern , central IsraelAccording to unconfirmed Palestinians reports , 21 Palestinians have been killed , with no indications yet from Israel about their identities as combatants or civilians . Netanyahu said that no Israelis died during Operation Shield and Arrow , though there have been reports of a number of injuries . Earlier , around 12 : 30 p . m ., the IDF initiated a widespread preemptive strike on a variety of Islamic Jihad rocket positions , including some concealed from the public eye , after seeing intelligence signs that the terror group was getting ready for a broad round of rocket attacks on Israel . At 11 : 45 a . m ., the IDF carried out its first attack of Wednesday on an Islamic Jihad crew that was getting ready to fire rockets near the southern Gaza city of Khan Yunis . This incident came after a similar incident on Tuesday early evening . After these incidents and along with other intelligence signs , IDF chief spokesman Brig . Gen . Daniel Hagri said that the IDF decided instead of only selectively attacking rocket crews on their way to their rocket firing positions , to preemptively attack a variety of concealed rocket positions that intelligence had previously found . At that point , Hagari said that the IDF & rsquo ; s rationale was that it was better to put the Jihad organization back on its heels again , rather than trying to track dozens of rocket crews once they are already out near their positions . Around 1 : 00 p . m . on Wednesday , the IDF & rsquo ; s analysis of why Islamic Jihad delayed striking back related to shock that the group was going through from a surprise attack overnight between Monday and Tuesday eliminating three of its top leaders and 10 key military positions , followed by the IDF successfully thwarting its initial attempts to strike back , said Hagari . For example , the IDF & rsquo ; s attack on an anti - tank missile crew on Tuesday evening thwarted an initial move to use one of its more advanced weapons against Israel , as opposed to many of its rockets , which are less precise . Hagari rejected any conception that Islamic Jihad was successfully using psychological warfare against Israel by rolling out its counter strike slowly . Rather , the IDF & rsquo ; s view would be that it has been consistent about keeping Islamic Jihad on its heels , but without getting drawn into a longer fight or a larger fight with Hamas . IDF chief - of - staff Lt . Gen . Herzi Halevi visited the South early Wednesday afternoon to personally ensure that Israel ' s missile defense and other defense elements remain on the highest levels of alert . If Hamas had joined in in a serious way , the conflict could have been extended longer than the multiple rounds Israel has had with Islamic Jihad which have all ended in less than 72 hours . But Hamas mostly stayed out of the fight , despite some of its public statements that it would join in . The IDF said on Wednesday that the David Sling missile defense system had also been used to shoot down a mid - range rocket fired at Tel Aviv . David ' s Sling & nbsp ; In 2018 , David ' s Sling was used against two missiles being fired from Syria , but it has not been used operationally since then . Moreover , the IDF wanted to emphasize that this was the first time David ' s Sling was used in defense of Tel Aviv . It was only used on Wednesday as an opportunity to test its status in a situation where there were fallback alternatives . Along with the Iron Dome against short - range rockets and the Arrow defense system against long range missiles , David ' s Sling is the middle element of Israel ' s missile defense .