In a one - on - one interview with Maayan Hoffman , Deputy CEO - Strategy & amp ; Innovation for the Jerusalem Post , Gilad Ostrovsky , Chief Forester for Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael - Jewish National Fund ( KKL - JNF ), discusses the impact that the Hamas - Israel war has had on the environment , and what KKL - JNF is doing to minimize the damages caused by the war .& ldquo ; The most severe damage has been caused in the southwest part of the Negev , and the upper Galilee ,& rdquo ; says Ostrovsky , who explains that damages were caused by fires and the movement of troops , heavy trucks , and tanks . & nbsp ; While repairing infrastructure can be done relatively quickly , restoring the vegetation , says Ostrovsky , is a long - term process . & ldquo ; We want to see if the trees can regenerate by themselves ,& rdquo ; he says . & ldquo ; We usually wait for one winter to pass to see how they react to the fire and the damage to the broken trees . Then we survey each species and look at what we have , what damages have occurred , and we wait a few years to replant . We prefer to let natural processes occur to bring back the forest if possible . & ndash ; so there are immediate actions and some long - term actions .& rdquo ; Ostrovsky estimates that it will take a year to rebuild damaged infrastructure , but the time it will take to restore the vegetation depends on the severity of the damage . Another challenge that has presented itself in the restoration of the forests during the war is the fact that a number of KKL - JNF foresters have been serving in the IDF , thereby reducing the number of foresters available . Nevertheless , he says , & ldquo ; We know we have a lot of work , but we think that we can handle it .& rdquo ; Ostrovsky adds that Israelis appreciate the open spaces and tranquility provided by the forests during these difficult times , just as they were valued during Corona . One of the main goals of KKL - JNF , he notes , is keeping the forest clean and well - maintained and ensuring that Israel & rsquo ; s forest areas remain large enough in the face of continued development within the country . Another significant issue in forestry today is climate change . Ostrovsky says that KKL - JNF has recently completed a policy paper to prepare the forests for climate change and ensure the survival of trees and vegetation . & ldquo ; Our policy guidelines are primarily about preventing fires , keeping the forest healthy , and making it more resilient in dealing with severe conditions .& rdquo ;