Hanan Savyon and Guy Amir , the duo behind the TV series Asfur and the megahit Israeli movies Maktub and Forgiveness , are back on the small screen with Bros , Netflix & rsquo ; s first original Hebrew - language series , which recycles the Jerusalemite schlubby bromance shtick that has worked for them all these years . If you liked their earlier work , you & rsquo ; ll have fun with this , and if you didn & rsquo ; t , well , you & rsquo ; re probably not their target audience anyway . For once , there are English subtitles available , which will make it easier for many English - speakers in Israel to give it a try .& nbsp ; It won & rsquo ; t shock anyone to hear that they play two friends who run a bar in the Mahaneh Yehuda market called Pin - Younis , with Savyon as the hard - partying Pini , whose wife can & rsquo ; t get pregnant ( which a doctor suggests is a problem caused by Pini & rsquo ; s drug use ), and Amir as Niso , his BFF and business partner , whose girlfriend , Rotem ( Yael Sztulman ), works at the bar . The main plot is about how they head to Krakow to support their favorite soccer team & ndash ; Beitar Jerusalem , as you might have guessed & ndash ; as it competes against a Polish team . Subplots include a possible cancer diagnosis , Niso & rsquo ; s problems with Rotem , and a group of Tel Aviv hipsters who plan to open a rival establishment and then try to buy their bar .& nbsp ; Their Poland adventure takes up several episodes and allows them to delve a bit into the little - known history of how Mizrahim were victims in the Holocaust . The Poland episodes also feature all kinds of action , including when they get chased by a group of neo - Nazis and even more dire predicaments . Like a lot of Israeli comedies , the series mixes sentimental and melodramatic storylines with the slapstick .& nbsp ; One thought that occurred to me watching it is that while most Beitar fans are just fans , there is a racist element to the team & rsquo ; s fan base that you wouldn & rsquo ; t guess at from its portrayal here . The series doesn & rsquo ; t make it clear that the characters distance themselves from the kinds of fans who have actually unfurled & ldquo ; Forever Pure & rdquo ; banners at the team & rsquo ; s matches & ndash ; & ldquo ; Forever Pure & rdquo ; is the title of an excellent documentary about these fans & ndash ; to show their opposition to the team hiring Arab players . These fans have resorted to violence to show their opposition to having Arabs and Muslims of all nationalities join the team .& nbsp ; But the heart of the series is Pini and Niso & rsquo ; s friendship , and Savyon and Amir , who have been working together for decades , really project the closeness of longtime friends and , like so many comic actors , rise to the occasion when there is an emotional moment . Their self - deprecating likability lifts this series above its often formulaic script , and if you stick with it , it will be because you enjoy spending time in their company .& nbsp ; What else is on Israeli TV ? IT & rsquo ; S GOOD news for fans of vintage American sitcoms that Yes has just started a new channel called Classic Comedies , which is available on Channel 29 . It runs around the clock , and it offers comedy series from the & rsquo ; 70s to the & rsquo ; 90s . It features All in the Family , which many consider the greatest sitcom of all time , which was about the unrepentant racist Archie Bunker . This series was created by television great Norman Lear , and was more or less the first time that a network television comedy dealt with political issues for laughs , but with a serious agenda . Lear was a liberal , and while the pugnacious hero , Bunker , charmed some , his convictions were proved wrong in episode after episode , although the series also made fun of his liberal son - in - law ( played by Rob Reiner , the son of Carl Reiner , who is now a movie director ) and his daughter ( Sally Struthers ). Other sitcoms on the channel include Mad About You , with Paul Reiser and Helen Hunt ( who went on to win a Best Actress Oscar for As Good As It Gets ), Cheers ( considered one of the best ensemble casts of all times ), Happy Days ( the Fonz !), Who & rsquo ; s the Boss ? and The Love Boat . If Yes programmers are reading this , I & rsquo ; d like to request that they add The Mary Tyler Moore Show and Taxi , two series created by James L . Brooks that I would be very happy to see at 2 a . m . when I can & rsquo ; t sleep . ONE OF the big issues in the Hollywood writers strike was the use of AI to write screenplays , because the Hollywood scribes feared they would be replaced . But when you watch a lot of the rom - coms and light entertainment on Netflix and other platforms these days , it & rsquo ; s hard to believe that they weren & rsquo ; t written by robots , and not especially well - programmed robots . That doesn & rsquo ; t mean you won & rsquo ; t enjoy aspects of them ; the casts and locations are always great - looking . But to say that there are no surprises would be an understatement .& nbsp ; A case in point is the new Spanish movie on Netflix , Love , Divided . It & rsquo ; s about a nerdy but gorgeous app designer who works out of his apartment , which shares a paper - thin wall with the apartment that a recently dumped , awkward but gorgeous pianist moves into . He has a deadline to get the app ready and must work all the time , while she is practicing for a special audition . If you & rsquo ; ve seen a movie or two , you could easily write a script right now that would be almost identical to the actual film . LOOKING FOR something a little more interesting , I found I & rsquo ; ll See You in My Dreams , a movie that recently joined the Netflix lineup and which stars Blythe Danner ( who is probably best known these days for being Gwyneth Paltrow & rsquo ; s mother , but who has had a very interesting career of her own ) as Carol , a lonely widow who steps back into the dating pool after many years alone . While it might sound like a typical rom - com , it & rsquo ; s much more thoughtful and even a bit downbeat . Carol , a retired singer and teacher and the mother of an adult daughter who lives far away , wakes up every morning , waters her plants , exercises , sees her girlfriends ( a great group played by Rhea Perlman , Mary Kay Place , and June Squibb ), and plays golf , but she feels something is missing in her life ; and after her beloved dog dies , she begins dating . Sam Elliott , who played the wise old cowboy in The Big Lebowski , is her love interest , and his character is similarly adrift . But the story isn & rsquo ; t all straight lines and big laughs , ending with a clinch . One element that sets it apart is a storyline where she befriends her pool cleaner , a young man who aspires to write songs and feels stuck , and to whom she can open up in a way she can & rsquo ; t with her old friends . The pool cleaner is played by Martin Starr , whom you may know as Gilfoyle , the Satan - worshiping programmer in Silicon Valley . While I loved him in that series , I actually didn & rsquo ; t recognize him here , and without his strange Gilfoyle hairstyle , he is a handsome leading man type , with an edge .& nbsp ; While I watched this movie , I started out envying the characters because they were living their lives in a world that was so peaceful , without war or terrorism or the thousands of other things that make life in Israel challenging . But by the end I realized that , to quote a line from the Norwegian movie 1001 Grams , & ldquo ; Life & rsquo ; s heaviest burden is having nothing to carry .& rdquo ; MUCH IS coming up soon in May , including a number of movies and series to mark Holocaust Remembrance Day , notably the series The Tattooist of Auschwitz , which stars Harvey Keitel in an adaptation of the book of the same name . There will be much more programming devoted to marking this day , including documentaries , series , and feature films , as well as movies devoted to Remembrance Day for the Fallen of Israel & rsquo ; s Wars and Independence Day , which will be filled with deeper sorrow this year , since the losses of October 7 and the subsequent war .