" Since he was diagnosed , this is my war ,& rdquo ; Meirav Funis told me . Her 10 - year - old son , Neidav , was diagnosed with leukemia in December , and they had been living at Schneider & ndash ; Children & rsquo ; s Medical Center while he received treatment .& nbsp ; I met Meirav at the Zichron Menachem annual four - wheeling trip , now in its 11th year . The Land Rover tour was located in the Ben Shemen Forest , an area full of trees , fields , and rocky terrain . Our Land Rover was number 13 . Our driver & rsquo ; s name was Zion , and he only had one hand . He lost his other hand in an accident in the IDF . He said he doesn & rsquo ; t let it stop him from living his life .& nbsp ; As we drove over the rocks embedded in the ground , I asked Meirav about Neidav . Meirav has four children ; her oldest is 17 . Their family lives in Beit Aryeh .& nbsp ; The week before the trip , Neidav finished his treatment . & ldquo ; We beat cancer , we beat it ,& rdquo ; Meirav said proudly .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; Neidav is 10 , but has a mind like a 50 - year - old ,& rdquo ; she said . She recounted that throughout his treatment he had stayed positive , with the understanding that there was no other option but to fight .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; It was all in the head ; there was no other option but to win .& rdquo ; Meirav said he knew everything that was going on , and his siblings knew as well . When they learned that Neidav was going to lose his hair , the family threw a party . His brother , Be & rsquo ; eri , and his father both decided to shave their heads with Neidav so he wouldn & rsquo ; t be alone . Be & rsquo ; eri sat with us in the Land Rover . However , Neidav was not with us because he had a fever . Part of the effects of leukemia is an extremely weak immune system . As a result of this , Neidav has not been able to attend school . Meirav believes he will catch up , though . She said that Neidav is very smart . & ldquo ; He learned English all by himself from TV shows ,& rdquo ; she said proudly .& nbsp ; Neidav had to undergo chemotherapy for five months . His mother confided that it had been an extremely difficult time , but that Neidav had continuously tried to be positive . Now that the treatment is over , they can finally see the light at the end of the tunnel .& nbsp ; When we got out of the Land Rover , there was a barbecue waiting for us with all types of meat , salad , and chips . All the kids were handed water guns , along with the volunteers & ndash ; who were either in high school or doing National Service . During the water fight , nobody was spared . Then , the volunteers led the kids in songs I knew from summer camp . One young man had drums , and others held children on their shoulders . They all stood in a circle singing and dancing while their parents sat around , talking and relaxing . There were kids of all ages , ranging from all sectors of Israeli society , from secular to haredi . As I stood watching , I was approached by Tomer Baum , a parent I had spoken on the early morning bus ride from Schneider Hospital in Petah Tikva to the forest .& nbsp ; Tomer had told me about his son Yair , who is 13 years old and was diagnosed with Hodgkin lymphoma in December 2023 . Yair was at a summer camp in the United States , but Tomer brought his son Aviv on the Land Rover tour . While Yair had been undergoing treatment at Sheba Medical Center , Aviv was very scared and stressed , Tomer explained .& nbsp ; Yair & rsquo ; s treatment lasted six months . In addition to chemo , Yair & rsquo ; s doctors also attempted additional treatments . Tomer talked about the scariest day at this hospital for him , when the doctors tried to give Yair a & ldquo ; biologic & rdquo ; treatment . When the nurses left the room , Yair stopped breathing , Tomer recalled . & ldquo ; He turned purple .& rdquo ; It turned out that Yair was having an allergic reaction to the medicine , causing the doctors to immediately cease the treatment . For Tomer , it was the & ldquo ; worst day ever .& rdquo ; Now Yair is in remission , but the next five years are crucial , a period during which the disease could reappear .& nbsp ; Tomer said that knowing Yair had a trip to the US to look forward to during his treatment had given him hope . As Aviv was also scared and stressed during his brother & rsquo ; s treatment , this Land Rover trip was a way for him to have fun , relax , and be a kid , his father said . VolunteeringI ALSO spoke to Bram , a high school student who has been volunteering with Zichron Menachem for a year and a half . As well as going on trips and helping at summer camps , he also assists individual families .& nbsp ; Bram told me about a family with five children that he began helping after the outbreak of the war with Hamas . The father was on reserve duty , and the mother was studying to be a doctor . One of the kids had cancer . & ldquo ; It felt like the house was falling apart ,& rdquo ; he shared . & ldquo ; I was just trying to hold the house together .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; Bram said that since the war began , there have not been enough volunteers , and many who used to travel to hospitals or to help individual families could no longer do so .& nbsp ; Zichron Menachem has several hundred volunteers . The organization was founded 34 years ago by Chaim and Miri Ehrental , whose son Menachem battled cancer for over 14 years . According to the founders , the organization believes that the emotional well - being of his / her family is crucial to a child & rsquo ; s healing process . Zichron Menachem runs a rehabilitative educational social day center , a hospitality center for families , study programs , and clubs and workshops & ndash ; as well as annual vacation camps abroad for children during winter and summer breaks , and a spring camp for parents of children with cancer . Zichron Menachem also offers family vacations and fun days throughout the year . Another aspect of the organization & rsquo ; s activities is related to medical care . This includes organizing and funding various therapies and treatments , home assistance , a blood donor registry , wig - fitting , and more . Recently , it established a blood collection center for oncology patients . Additionally , for the past 12 years , in collaboration with the Pantene hair product brand , Zichron Menachem has been running the Hair for Hope project , which collects hair donations to provide free wigs for cancer patients . When I asked Bram why he continues to volunteer , his answer was : & ldquo ; There is a lot of satisfaction . I can feel the effect I have on the kids .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; He added that they also have an effect on him . & ldquo ; I pay more attention to what I say . I & rsquo ; ve become more emotionally intelligent ,& rdquo ; he said .& nbsp ; At the end of the trip , parents had to drag their kids home , sopping wet from the water fight . The volunteers , also sopping wet , grinned from ear to ear . They kept asking me , & ldquo ; Did you have fun ?& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Of course ,& rdquo ; I replied . 