A school in Nablus run by the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East ( UNRWA ) posted a video to its official Facebook page in which a young student called for the victory of Hamas & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; Jihad warriors & rdquo ; in Gaza and evoked Mohammad & rsquo ; s defeat of the Jews at Khaybar , per a new report from the Institute for Monitoring Peace and Cultural Tolerance in School Education ( IMPACT - se ). In the video , several dozen assembled students call out " Amen " after each line recited by the boy , who is flanked by what appears to be an UNRWA school administrator . It also shows students reading a passage from a fifth - grade Islamic Education textbook that incites violence and Jihad against Israel , per the report . The report also documented several examples of teachers at UNRWA schools in Gaza praising the attacks on social media , and found ties between Hamas terrorists and UNRWA schools . At least 14 teachers had taken to social media to praise the massacre , both while the atrocities were still ongoing and weeks later . Sarah Alderawy , an UNRWA teacher in Gaza , took to Facebook on October 7 to post a video of Hamas terrorists shooting at Israeli cars that day . The video was captioned with a verse from the Quran that read " We will surely come to them with soldiers that they will be powerless to encounter , and we will surely expel them in humiliation , and they will be debased ." UNRWA teacher Ebrahim Al Azaia posted a video on Facebook of a rocket landing in a parking lot in Israel . He included the caption " What a splendid sight !" Afab Talab , a teacher at an UNRWA school in Gaza , posted on the day of the attacks that they represented the " first real victory " on the way to liberating all of Palestine , along with a video montage of the infiltrations , the kidnapping of an Israeli soldier , and Israelis at a party fleeing for their lives . The report also found that more than 100 Hamas terrorists were confirmed to have graduated from UNRWA schools , and stated that is statistically likely that the majority of the 3 , 000 terrorists who perpetrated the October 7 massacre attended UNRWA institutions , which make up half of all schools in Gaza . In one terrorist & rsquo ; s car , a diploma from an UNRWA - run school was found . & nbsp ; UNRWA , which has received nearly $ 1 billion from the US over the past 5 years , and similar amounts from the UK , EU , and others , uses textbooks written by the Palestinian Authority , which have been found to consistently promote Jihad , antisemitism , and suicide attacks against Israelis . The report gave several more examples of this from 2023 textbooks , including excerpts from math and science lessons . In one example , a fourth - grade math problem reads : & ldquo ; The number of martyrs of the First Intifada ( the Intifada of Rocks ) is 1 , 392 martyrs , and the number of martyrs of the Al - Aqsa Intifada is 4 , 673 . The number of martyrs in the two intifadas is _________ martyrs .& rdquo ; Another demonstrates Newton & rsquo ; s Second Law of Physics by displaying an animation of a Palestinian aiming a slingshot at approaching Israeli soldiers , and asks students to identify the forces that affect the projectile after its release from the slingshot and spring . First - graders are taught as part of a grammatical exercise that " Jihad is one of the gates to paradise .& rdquo ; A chapter discussing the role of women in combat in Islam glorifies a woman who fatally stabbed a Jew as " justly an example of a brave Muslim woman in defense of the Muslims ." Most graphically , an eighth - grade Arabic textbook contains a story for reading comprehension glorifying suicide attacks against Israeli soldiers . The story praises Palestinian fighters in the battle of Karameh , describing how they " wore explosive belts , thus turning their bodies into fire burning the Zionist tank ." An illustration is shown depicting a Palestinian spraying bullets at Israeli soldiers in a tank . The story then describes how the soldiers ' bodies and body parts became " food for wild animals on land and birds of prey in the sky ." UNRWA ' s history of using educational materials that glorify terrorismGlorification of terrorism in textbooks used by UNRWA has been reported on for several years . UNRWA ' s policy is to use textbooks that are provided by local educational authorities , despite this not being listed as a requirement in the UN ' s mandate to the organization . An UNRWA official told The Jerusalem Post in 2020 that the organization & rsquo ; s protocol was to review all educational materials given to its teachers by local educational authorities , but rather than to censor or refuse to use them , to instruct its teachers to simply skip over potentially inciting material . UNRWA & rsquo ; s chief spokeswoman told Foreign Policy Magazine in 2021 that & ldquo ; there is zero tolerance & rdquo ; in UNRWA schools for & ldquo ; incitement , antisemitism , and discrimination .& rdquo ; However , UNRWA has itself directly published material containing the glorification of terrorism and antisemitism . An IMPACT - Se report from 2021 found that UNRWA had sent its schools self - study materials for students to use at home during the coronavirus pandemic , which " egregiously violated " UN , UNESCO , and UNRWA ' s stated values and standards . The material , which contained the official UNRWA symbol , contained antisemitic material as well as calls for " martyrdom , violence , and Jihad ," per the report . UNRWA subsequently acknowledged that it had " mistakenly " published inappropriate material for student use , and stated that the issue had been dealt with and that future instances would be prevented through a rigorous review process . However , a July 2022 report by IMPACT - se found that self - published material from UNRWA continued to encourage " jihad , violence , and martyrdom ," as well as " antisemitism , conflict discourse , hate , andintolerance ." Former US president Donald Trump cut off all American funding for UNRWA in 2018 , drawing outcry from Palestinian rights advocates . President Joe Biden restored the US & rsquo ; s relationship with the organization in 2021 , with the US having sent nearly $ 750 million to the organization over the past three years .