The Israeli Air Force dropped leaflets in the Quneitra area of southwestern Syria on Sunday , warning Syrian soldiers against working with Hezbollah , according to Syrian opposition sources .& ldquo ; Time after time , you are responsible for the damages caused by your choices !& rdquo ; read the leaflet dropped by the IDF , according to a photo shared by Syrian journalist Nour Abo Hassan . & ldquo ; The continued presence of Hezbollah in the Syrian site of Tal Qalib and cooperation with them in any way will not pass well for you ! The presence of Hezbollah in the region brought you humiliation and you are paying the price for that .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; The continued presence of Hezbollah in the Syrian site of Tal Qalib and cooperation with them in any way will not pass well for you ! The presence of Hezbollah in the region brought you humiliation and you are paying the price for that .& rdquo ; Alleged IAF leaflets # القنيطرة طائرات مسيرة تابعة للجيش الإسرائيلي تقوم بإلقاء منشورات ورقية على قرى وبلدات # القنيطرة تؤكد من خلالها القصف الإسرائيلي الذي حصل منتصف ليلة أمس على # تل_قليب في # السويداء والذي استهدف موقعا ً عسكريا pic . twitter . com / ho49LraGTB & mdash ; Nour Abo Hasan (@ nourabohsn ) December 11 , 2022According to the As - Suwayda 24 site , a radar site belonging to the Syrian military at Tal Qalib was hit by an Israeli airstrike on Saturday night . The alleged airstrike was not reported by official Syrian sources . The ALMA Research and Education Center noted on Sunday that a number of explosions were heard in the area of Tal Qalib and the airport near it and that the site is host to air defense and intel gathering systems . We know of dozens of sites where there is a possible presence of Hezbollah and Iranians in southern Syria . The Russian preoccupation with Ukraine and arms trade with Iran allows the Shia axis greater freedom of action in Syria . Below , a video taken of Tel Khalib and the airfield . pic . twitter . com / JCd1NlqPk3 & mdash ; Israel - Alma (@ Israel_Alma_org ) December 11 , 2022Alleged Israeli airstrike comes shortly after reports Iran transferring advanced air defensesThe reported airstrike comes just weeks after the Syrian Capital Voice site reported that Syria and Iran have been deploying new air defense systems , including jamming and early warning systems , around Damascus in order to prevent Israeli airstrikes in the area . According to the report , the new systems were built by Korean and Chinese companies and provided by Iran as part of agreements reached between Syria and Iran . Sources told the Capital Voice that the Syrian Defense Ministry tested jamming systems in October , succeeding and getting Israeli aircraft to leave Syrian airspace at least twice . Syrian loyalist sources have reported an increase in flights of Israeli and American reconnaissance aircraft near Syrian territory in recent weeks , with sources telling the Capital Voice that Israel and the US were likely trying to locate the new air defense systems in order to target them . The last alleged Israeli airstrikes reported in Syria were conducted in mid - November and targeted sites in the coastal and central regions of Syria . The report also comes as the IDF announced on Saturday night that it was launching the snap & ldquo ; Hot Winter 2 & rdquo ; drill to improve the readiness of Israeli troops for conflict on the northern front .