The Israeli government approved to extend the state of emergency in Lod by 48 hours , the Defense Ministry announced on Tuesday morning . 

The extension comes following the recommendations of Defense Minister Benny Gantz , Israel Police and the Interior Ministry - making it possible to allocate rescue forces under police command , allot further access to required equipment and continue the restriction of movement on residents of the city . 

Further state of emergency extensions beyond three applications will require full government approval .

Under the current curfew , residents of the city are prohibited from leaving their homes , except for going to protected areas amid rocket fire or to receive emergency medical treatment . Police warned that violations of these prohibitions are punishable by up to three years in prison .

The extended order comes as Lod , Ramla and other cities with mixed populations of Israeli Jews and Arabs & nbsp ; experience violent rioting and infighting on an almost nightly basis . The unrest has left one dead , scores injured , and homes , vehicles and businesses torched .

The violence continued across Israel on Monday as the Police and Fire and Rescue Services struggled to respond to the volume of incidents . Some 71 people were arrested for disrupting public order on Monday night alone .

Lod has become a main point of contention for police and rioters , having become a focal point for the civil unrest plaguing the country this past week .

Amid the violence , a synagogue , homes , vehicles , garbage dumps and open areas have been torched in the southern Israeli city . Scores have been left injured from burns , stone - throwing incidents or targeted assaults . One person has died .

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said while visited Lod on Thursday & nbsp ; that there is no greater threat than the internal disturbances brewing throughout the country .

In light of the recent countrywide turmoil , the Higher Arab Monitoring Committee in Israel announced a general strike across the Arab - Israeli sector for Tuesday , to express solidarity with al - Aqsa Mosque and the residents of Sheikh Jarrah .

The committee @@@ s terms for the strike call for an end to the & quot ; massacre & quot ; in the Gaza Strip , the aggression in Jerusalem surrounding flashpoints such as al - Aqsa and Sheikh Jarrah , and the immediate withdrawal of right - wing Jewish & quot ; settler gangs & quot ; and police forces from Arab cities and villages . The strike is also calling for a show of solidarity with those detained during the countrywide rioting .

The strike itself will encompass the entire Arab work sector , with the exception of the private education system and the Arab health sector .

The committee addressed a number of UN bodies and other foreign missions in Israel , requesting the protection of Arab - Israeli citizens , calling for them to & quot ; force Israel into taking immediate steps & quot ; to protect Palestinian citizens and bring an end to the violence against them .

The leader of the Druze community , Sheikh Mofek Tarif , issued a public statement condemning all acts of violence against other human beings , adding that damage to public property and places of worship is particularly shameful and asking the public to act & quot ; wisely and tolerantly & quot ; to avoid further escalation . 

He added that Druze - who stand as a bridge of peace between communities and religions in Israel - have a & quot ; moral obligation & quot ; to calm the tides between Jewish Israelis and their Arab neighbors .

Tarif also called on other religious leaders to speak out in condemnation of these illegal activities as he has , in the hopes other communities will follow suit toward nonviolence .