Once in a while , new startling and exciting discoveries filter through even in this data - drenched Internet - accelerated world . The classical music community was surprised and thrilled around a year and a half or so ago when a long - lost score by Felix Mendelssohn and Ignaz Moscheles , which came to light in 2009 after a hiatus of close to 200 years , was restored to its former glory and unveiled to the public . Internationally renowned pianist Tomer Lev and his MultiPiano Ensemble are now proffering the work to local audiences , with the Israeli Philharmonic Orchestra ( IPO ) in tow . The four - date series kicks off at the Charles Bronfman Auditorium in Tel Aviv tonight , April 3 ( 7 p . m .), followed by two further concerts there on April 4 and 6 ( 8 p . m . and 9 p . m . respectively ), closing at the Jerusalem Theatre on April 7 ( 8 p . m .). The Fantasy and Variations on a Theme by Weber ( aka Fantasia and Variations ) has a fascinating subtext and will be featured in forthcoming concerts . The program also includes an intriguing and now highly poignant work from 2012 by Israeli composer Arie Levanon , who died on October 31 at 91 , called Land of Four Languages . The full lineup includes Orawa by Polish composer Wojciech Kilar , who died in 2013 , Dvorak & rsquo ; s Carnival Overture , and Beethoven & rsquo ; s Violin Concerto in D major , with Vadim Gluzman as soloist . Fantasia and Variations had the perfect marketing springboard regarding the performing artists , debut set , and the hit parade of the time . The original ivory ticklers were its composers Mendelssohn and Moscheles , with whom Mendelssohn studied for a while . Lev says the venture was destined to get the ticket offices rolling from the off . & ldquo ; The work is based on a theme by Weber ,& rdquo ; Lev explains . The score in question was riding high in the popularity stakes of the day . & ldquo ; It is quite a story . In 1833 , Mendelssohn was enjoying the best stage of his career . He was a superstar in England . That was the country where he was most admired .& rdquo ; THAT PUBLIC profile led to an offer that was too good to refuse . & ldquo ; His teacher , Ignaz Moscheles , lived in London . Both were of German Jewish origin and the most idolized piano virtuosi in England and Europe . They were the two great Jewish virtuosos .& rdquo ; That was also recognized in lofty societal circles . & ldquo ; They were invited to be the key performers in a charity event under the aegis of the royal palace in London . It was a high - brow charity event ,& rdquo ; Lev notes . The organizers sought something that would do justice to the occasion and wow the audience . They chose a proven product and asked the artists to run with it .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; They went for the two biggest musical celebrities . Each performed parts of a recital , but the event ' s highlight was when they were asked to jointly prepare something based on one of the hit numbers at that time : Gypsy March , written by Weber for a musical theater production called Preciosa . Everyone was mad about Gypsy March .& rdquo ; Back in the early 19th century , classical composers and musicians frequently allowed themselves to stray from the compositional straight and narrow . That suited Mendelssohn and Moscheles down to the ground . & ldquo ; They were asked to improvise variations on this theme , the Gypsy March ,& rdquo ; says Lev .& ldquo ; They were both excellent improvisers and played like in a jam session ; you take a tune with a chords chart and improvise .& rdquo ; That comes across in Fantasia and Variations . & ldquo ; You have one piano playing something elaborate while the other plays more in line with the charts , and then they switch . It was an open approach .& rdquo ; It worked well . & ldquo ; The event was an amazing success , and they asked them to do it again ,& rdquo ; Lev remarks , noting that it was not just a matter of reprising the crowd - pleaser ." They had more time to plan it for the second event . They were both so busy . They decided to turn the improvisations into a written composition . They also added an orchestra .& rdquo ; Hence , the format for this week & rsquo ; s Tel Aviv and Jerusalem concerts . NOT THAT Mendelssohn and Moscheles were exactly scratching around for work at the time , but , presumably , the response to their efforts must have had them rubbing their hands with anticipation of thrilling audiences elsewhere . However , as with all good yarns , there was a dramatic twist . & lsquo ; Shortly after the second concert , the sheet music disappeared , and it was forgotten .& rdquo ; There was more drama when Mendelssohn died 14 years after the charity event doubleheader , at only 38 . Undeterred , his partner in box office success decided to make some hay while the sun still filtered through before the memory of the triumph lingered .& ldquo ; Moscheles tried to restore the sheet music ,& rdquo ; says Lev . That , it transpired , was easier said than done . & ldquo ; In fact , he came up with a different composition . He didn & rsquo ; t really manage to restore the original work .& rdquo ; Nevertheless , as they say in certain commercial quarters , you can regain your public profile if you hang around long enough . & ldquo ; Suddenly , they discovered the original manuscript in archives in Saint Petersburg , of all places ,& rdquo ; Lev chuckles . That proved to be a game changer . Plenty of elbow grease had to be invested before the work could become a practical proposition for public performance .& nbsp ; That is precisely what Lev and his MultiPiano counterparts & ndash ; Berenika Glixman , Nimrod Meity - Haftel , and Lior Lifshitz & ndash ; have done in the past year or so , in London and Berlin and , a couple of weeks ago , at Carnegie Hall in New York . Sheet music was languishing in the archives , and it was deplorable , just as the international classical community began gearing up for the bicentennial of Mendelssohn & rsquo ; s birth in 2009 . It was a mess . & ldquo ; There were many things scribbled on the pages and many things added , and the paper was in a bad state ,& rdquo ; Lev advises .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; They took experts from the state conservatory in Moscow , with experts in ink and paper . Eventually , they had a good copy of the original work 1833 .& rdquo ; All & rsquo ; s well , and that ends well . When Lev got wind of the developments , he invited the chief restorer of the sheet music to come to Israel to give a talk about the whole process . Much to the quartet leader & rsquo ; s surprise and pleasure , the lecturer gave him the score after the lecture . Lev was determined to grace the work with commensurate respect and revive public interest . That led to the aforementioned concerts worldwide , with the Berlin date filmed and recorded , the recording due out soon on the Hyperion label , and a rendition of an intriguing composition by Moscheles .& ldquo ; We are one of the only ensembles in the world to have a copy of the sheet music and to perform it ,& rdquo ; Lev notes proudly . Lev : thrilled to play the original work in IsraelLev says he is thrilled to be able to play the original work here . & ldquo ; The concerts with the IPO close a lovely circle , after concerts in London , Berlin , Carnegie Hall in New York , Tel Aviv and Jerusalem . You could see this is a sort of resurrection of the work , bringing it back to the surface . The audiences have responded amazingly so far . We have had standing ovations everywhere .& rdquo ; There is , surely , more rapturous applause due for the ensemble and IPO when they present Fantasia and Variations here . And Levanon should rightly be well received , too . His composition feeds off the sounds , rhythms , and sensibilities of four cultures that the Romanian - born composer considered to be core to the State of Israel & mdash ; Hebrew , Yiddish , Arabic , and Ladino . Levanon wrote the piece for MultiPiano , which performs works on two pianos for four , six , or eight hands , with or without an orchestra . Lev believes the time is particularly ripe for the work to resound from the concert halls and , hopefully , change mindsets & ndash ; and possibly make some difference to the dismal state of regional affairs .& ldquo ; When we started touring internationally with MultiPiano , we saw that people don & rsquo ; t know about Israel & rsquo ; s multiculturalism . So we decided we wanted to perform something that would reflect the pluralist face of this country .& rdquo ; Levanon was up for that . & ldquo ; He composed Land of Four Languages . He chose four traditional tunes in different languages . His message was that if the four can live together harmoniously , in the score , maybe they will learn to live together in the real world .& rdquo ; The composition has been well received thus far , but in the wake of October 7 , Lev feels the cross - cultural creation has taken on added significance . & ldquo ; After Levanon & rsquo ; s passing , and after everything Israel has been through in the past few months , the value and message of this work are more relevant than ever .& rdquo ; For tickets and more information : https :// www . ipo . co . il / en /