Palestinian detainees held in Israeli prison under administrative detention have decided to go on an & ldquo ; open - ended & rdquo ; hunger strike in the next few days , a committee representing the inmates announced over the weekend . The committee called on the detainees who are planning to join the hunger strike to start & ldquo ; writing their wills .& rdquo ; Palestinian sources say more than 1 , 000 detainees are currently being held in Israeli prison under administrative detention , a procedure that allows the security forces to hold suspects on the basis of classified information without charging them or bringing them to trial . Most of the administrative detainees are former security prisoners who spent time in Israeli prison for security - related offenses and terrorism , the sources noted .& nbsp ; Previous hunger strikes & nbsp ; Last year , dozens of administrative detainees went on a 19 - day hunger strike in protest of the policy of administrative detention . The detainees claimed they decided to suspend the hunger strike after receiving promises from the Israeli authorities to look into their demands .& nbsp ; Also last year , hundreds of Palestinian administrative detainees boycotted Israeli courts as part of a campaign to put pressure on Israel to end the policy .& nbsp ; The planned hunger strike aims to exert pressure on Israel regarding the issue of administrative detention and protest against the death of senior Palestinian Islamic Jihad detainee Khader Adnan , who died in Israeli custody last week after an 86 - day hunger strike , the committee said in a letter reportedly smuggled from one of the prisons .& nbsp ; It did not set a date for the start of the hunger strike .& nbsp ; In response to the death of Adnan , 44 , Palestinian terror groups in the Gaza Strip last week fired more than 100 rockets at Israel before an unofficial ceasefire was announced with the help of Egypt , Qatar and the United Nations . & nbsp ;& ldquo ; We have become certain beyond doubt that the occupation and the Shin Bet ( Israel & rsquo ; s Internal Security Agency ) can & rsquo ; t provide positive results on the level of the administrative detention file unless they come under real pressure ,& rdquo ; the committee said . It pointed out that efforts to solve the issue of administrative detention began two years ago with hunger strikes and boycotts of Israeli courts . According to the committee , the administrative detainees & rsquo ; decision to declare a hunger strike was taken after & ldquo ; round - the - clock consultations and coordination & rdquo ; with representatives of the Palestinian factions in the West Bank and Gaza Strip . & ldquo ; We are facing a historic moment and we must take advantage of it ,& rdquo ; the committee said . A leader of the Palestinian security prisoners held in Israeli jails was quoted on Saturday as saying that a large number of inmates belonging to Hamas and other Palestinian factions would take part in the hunger strike . The unnamed leader , who was quoted by the Hamas - affiliated Palestine Information Center , said the detainees who are planning to take part in the hunger strike were on a & ldquo ; suicide & rdquo ; mission .& ldquo ; The decision to go on hunger strike was taken after the martyrdom of Sheikh Khader Adnan ,& rdquo ; he said . Zaher Jabareen , a member of the Hamas political bureau , said the Palestinians and their & ldquo ; resistance & rdquo ; groups stand behind the administrative detainees in their & ldquo ; battle & rdquo ; against the Israeli authorities . Jabareen held the Israeli authorities fully responsible for the consequences of the planned hunger strike and restrictions imposed on all the Palestinian security prisoners .