Women have been present in the Israeli art scene from its beginnings & ndash ; artists such as Aviva Uri , Esther Peretz Arad , Anna Ticho , Leah Nikel , and Ruth Shlos . Their role in building the art world in Israel seems to me as significant as the impact of female pioneers ( halutzot ) in creating the State of Israel , the role of the first female prime minister , Golda Meir , and ( up to the present day ) the importance of female soldiers serving in the IDF . However , even though the role of women has been so crucial in Israel , and the feminist art movement was not as strong as in other countries , it took female artists decades to be equally represented by galleries and museums . Ruth Markus is a retired lecturer in Tel Aviv University & rsquo ; s History of Art Department and founder of the Association for Women & rsquo ; s Art and Gender Research in Israel . In her article & ldquo ; Artists : Yishuv and Israel : 1920 - 1970 & rdquo ; in the Shalvi / Hyman Encyclopedia of Jewish Women , she says that it is only since the 1990s that & ldquo ; the number of participants in exhibitions in the various museums and galleries was divided equally between men and women , with the women at times even in the majority .& rdquo ; Today , I even dare to say that women dominate Israeli art . Therefore , especially on International Women & rsquo ; s Day , I & rsquo ; ve chosen for the Magazine three women artists who , even during the war , are constantly active . They agreed to answer my three questions : What inspires you ? What do you call art ? What , in your opinion , makes your artwork different from that of other artists ? Batia ShaniBatia Shani is a multimedia artist , emphasizing embroidery , mail art , painting , and collage . She is the mother of three and grandmother of six . She uses materials and clothes previously used , including IDF uniforms . Shani embroiders texts , images , numbers , and amorphic shapes . Each of the garments holds images and words ; for example , the names and ages of women murdered by their partners . Her art deals with social issues , violence against women and families , people in crisis , refugees , and recently , the painful silence toward the sexual victims of the Oct . 7 massacre . In her latest works , it is embroidered : & ldquo ; Me too . Unless you & rsquo ; re a Jew .& rdquo ; Born and raised in Haifa to a family of Holocaust survivors who came to Israel just after WW II , Shani was expected to get an education and start a & ldquo ; normal job .& rdquo ; So , before becoming an artist , she worked as a social worker . Art was always present in her life , but it was only in her mid - thirties that she decided to focus completely on art , studying at the Royal School of Needlework in London , and later in Israel at the Hamidrasha School of Art , Beit Berl College , Kalmania .& ldquo ; The studies helped me understand that embroidery was my language ,& rdquo ; she said . Embroidery as a craft was deeply rooted in her family traditions . When she was a girl , she watched her aunts embroidering . She changed it into art . Since the 1990s , Shani has exhibited her work at many art fairs , galleries , and museums around the world . Now she is preparing two solo exhibitions . & ldquo ; I Speak Gibberish to You & rdquo ; is set to open on May 9 in her studio at 6 Hapelech Street in Tel Aviv . A show at the University of Haifa ( name not yet revealed ) will open on June 2 . INSPIRATION : Everything . In general , my work is improvised ; I don & rsquo ; t have any plan when I start my journey with my needle [ there is a dress full of stories that she worked on for a year ]. My inspiration comes from the piece of fabric that I started to work with , but it must be material with some history . In many of my works , I want to preserve the memory of my late mother . I am inspired by my emotions and by what I see around me . For example , in my upcoming exhibition , I will reflect on the situation in Israel . I felt a lack of words to express what was happening in Israel [ last year ], so I used embroidery as & lsquo ; gibberish & rsquo ; language . I thought it was the worst moment in my country : I didn & rsquo ; t realize it could get much worse ... MEANING OF ART : For me , as a viewer & ndash ; because I love seeing art by others & ndash ; it is something that touches me . Of course , it comes through the doors of visuality , but [ it has to be ] something that will play on my emotional threads . SHANI & rsquo ; S ARTWORK : First of all , I refuse to look for something unique , something that is only mine . But , of course , it makes me very happy when someone recognizes my embroidery and envelopes & ndash ; which are also characteristics in my work ; these are my fingerprints . I think maybe the amount of sensitivity to the details , maybe my ability to express sad and painful things is what makes my works different . I am a feminist artist , so I show things that cause the discrimination of women . I try not to put , as a headline , that my work is politically involved , but I have a lot to say about politics . I am dealing with catastrophes , with grief . The current war ... The outcome is very aesthetic , often very colorful , but when people come closer to it , they notice the text that I embroidered , which is very hard . batiashani . com / Noa YekutieliAt a young age , Noa Yekutieli is already an internationally accomplished artist . For over a decade she has had various solo shows and participated in group exhibitions all over the world . Her works are in the collections of the Israel Museum in Jerusalem , the Tel Aviv Museum of Art , and various private collections . She lives and works in Tel Aviv , Los Angeles , and New York . Her solo exhibition & ldquo ; No Longer & ndash ; Not Yet & rdquo ; is currently on view at Brooklyn & rsquo ; s International Studio & amp ; Curatorial Program ( ISCP ) through June 21 . In April , she will participate in a group exhibition & ldquo ; Common Ground : Israeli Art Meets Archaeology & rdquo ; at the Israel Museum . Yekutieli comes from a multicultural family ( Japanese - American - Israeli ) and uses her rich heritage in her works . She combines a diversity of materials that , she says , & ldquo ; echo longing for unknown singular origins and fractured notions of home .& rdquo ; She engages in various mediums , such as installation , assemblage , and her signature manual paper - cutting technique , about which , she said , & ldquo ; It mirrors my artistic essence . It embodies the Japanese concept of & lsquo ; Ma & rsquo ; & ndash ; emphasizing the significance of missing or what is missed . I am drawn to the unseen , reflecting overlooked narratives and the complexities of cultural assimilation . The act of its irreversibility reduction mirrors life , leaving scars that prompt reflection .& rdquo ; INSPIRATION : As a multicultural artist of Japanese - American - Israeli background , I naturally seek to bridge between cultures and languages in my work . I am inspired to explore new languages or forms of expression to address traumatic and complex subjects such as the social - political reality in Israel - Palestine , immigration , and cyclic patterns of destruction .& nbsp ; Through the medium of manual cut paper , I am compelled to create spaces and artworks imbued with a deliberately contrasting aesthetic . I attempt to offer an alternative language & ndash ; one that is more vulnerable , feminine , and nuanced & ndash ; in observing and reflecting on the harsh realities we confront . This counters the rapid pace and predominantly Western , masculine discourse that often created this reality , to begin with , and is perpetuating the continuous destructive patterns . I am inspired to create spaces that can hold more than one narrative , more than one absolute truth & ndash ; to question how we tell stories rather than telling a story . MEANING OF ART : To me , art encompasses any endeavor that challenges what we often accept as & lsquo ; the nature of things & rsquo ; or & lsquo ; established perspectives .& rsquo ; It & rsquo ; s not about resistance for its own sake but rather about suggesting and providing fresh viewpoints to comprehend the reality surrounding us . Art acts as a bubble within which I can uniquely unfold the intricacies of reality , and then reconnect with the broader world through my art again . It serves as a meditative space where my unconscious takes over , leading me to different ways of thinking about the given . YEKUTIELI & rsquo ; S ARTWORK : In my perspective , what sets my artwork apart is that I am not afraid of embracing liminal spaces . Often , there & rsquo ; s a reluctance to engage with these spaces of in - betweenness : those that are almost , not here nor there , or unclear , even though they constitute much of our lived experience . In my practice , I am deeply intrigued by the notion of crafting environments where we collectively explore liminality , viewing it not as a mere interim state awaiting conclusions but as a novel and fertile terrain in its own right .& nbsp ; Coming from a multicultural background devoid of a historically shared past & ndash ; being both Japanese and Israeli & ndash ; I find myself naturally attuned to multiplicity without experiencing discomfort . In a world marked by polarization , I see the creation of spaces , where multiplicity enriches rather than confuses , as a crucial aspect of the human experience . www . noayekutieli . com / Ella TaubA self - taught artist , Ella Taub & ndash ; in her sculptures , paintings , relief works , prints , and drawings & ndash ; focuses on the nature of changes in a feminine body , also oscillating between historically appreciated shapes and contemporary beauty images . Taub explores different female roles in her art and the evolution of self - image . Taub works with different materials , sometimes including body - like ones , and metal chains . & ldquo ; I collect materials for my work from my surroundings ; each of my works is connected to the place and time in which I create . Often , a material from which the sculpture emerges gives the work & rsquo ; s narrative ,& rdquo ; she told the Magazine . Some of her works are very personal and based on intimate relations with herself and others . In her recent February solo show in Tel Aviv & ldquo ; What I Didn & rsquo ; t Wear ,& rdquo ; Taub refers to her close connection with her mother ( with whom , at age five , she made aliyah from St . Petersburg , Russia ) but also enters into a dialogue with her future daughters , whom she might have one day . Taub has exhibited in Israel and Berlin . Her works are on view until March 9 at the group show & ldquo ; Bread and Roses 18 & rdquo ; at the Bread and Roses Gallery in Tel Aviv . INSPIRATION : My artistic journey is fueled by the intricate dance of relationships & ndash ; those between my inner self , my corporeal form , and the world around me . The allure lies in exploring the ever - shifting nuances of the feminine physique , its narrative etched by life & rsquo ; s twists and turns , and its resonance across diverse cultural landscapes . Moreover , personal narratives , like the potent symbolism of freedom evoked by chains in select pieces , serve as potent wellsprings of inspiration . My art serves as a mirror reflecting the interplay of inner dialogue , societal constructs , and the relentless quest for liberation . MEANING OF ART : Art , to me , is a boundless realm where creativity intertwines with introspection . It manifests in myriad forms . Art is not merely about aesthetics ; it & rsquo ; s a profound exploration of complex themes , a challenge to established norms , and a conduit for stirring the soul . It & rsquo ; s a process that transcends boundaries , beckoning viewers into a realm of dialogue , reflection , and interpretation . TAUB & rsquo ; S ARTWORK : My artistic voice resonates distinctly through its intimate exploration of the feminine form and its intricate relationship with the self - image perception and body expression society . Through solitary figures and intricate symbolism , I aim to evoke themes of independence , resilience , and the societal gaze upon women & ndash ; and question historical patriarchal myths by infusion of personal narratives , and materials , that are collected with a connection to the space and time . Ultimately , my art distinguishes itself through its poignant exploration of the human experience , beckoning viewers into a silent dialogue . ellataub . com / 