Tambour , the largest paint and building materials company in Israel , unveiled its new color collection , the Balance collection , which draws inspiration from the spaces around us and expresses the effects of color in the various spaces on our feelings . Tambour also revealed the findings of a survey according to which 90 % of Israelis feel positive emotions after painting their house , and it launched an online service of paint samples that consumers can order for their home to help with the decision on choosing the color for their house . On the occasion of the launch of the new collection ahead of Passover , Tambour conducted an in - depth survey that examined the feelings Israelis are experiencing after six months of war , whether Israelis spend more time at home compared to the period before the war , what actions they are doing more to relax and to take a break from the situation , how the security situation affected their consumption habits and how many of them intend to paint the house for the holidays . The wisdom of balance " We live in an era of far - reaching changes that are happening at a dizzying pace . Some of them encourage us to move forward even more strongly , and some of them invite us to stop and rethink the way we live and the spaces where we spend our time . We want these spaces to transform our quality of life , for good & ndash ; have them give expression to the nature that surrounds us , plants , trees , soil , air , and water , and may they allow us to rest and recharge with renewed strength and inspire us ," says Niva Yehiav Alon , Head of Design at Tambour . Tambour ' s Balance collection combines the beneficial properties and inspiration we draw from nature and our immediate environment , and the psychology of color and its ability to influence the mood and general feeling in the space where we are . The collection presents 5 groups of shades , each of which has a different effect on our feelings : starting with feelings of calmness and peace , through feelings of renewal , relaxation , and stability , and up to a feeling of enchantment , which makes our hearts skip a beat . Tambour chose to describe the story of each shade group in the title and keywords and let the colors convey the feelings . Calm : freedom | boundless spaces | quiet release | infinityRelaxation : walking barefoot and feeling the ground under your feet | a place of refuge | Mother Earth | a place for comfort | tendernessStability : certainty | a sense of belonging | stable ground | connect to the roots | depth | meaningRegeneration : regeneration | refreshment | to be recharged | to grow | to reach new heights . Excitement : to feel your breath taken away in front of a spectacular sunset | admire a full moon | to hear the whistling of the wind in the heart of the desert