Like most people in Israel , Ran was awakened by sirens on Saturday . He lives in Tel Aviv . His full name cannot be used for security reasons . He is a soldier in Israel & rsquo ; s elite Lotar counterterrorism unit . Ran went to the shelter with his family , and then went back to sleep . Then there was another siren , and he turned on the TV to see the horrific images the rest of the country was waking up to . In another part of Israel , Tal Boorstein , a reservist and regiment commander in the 969th battalion , which is part of the 7643 brigade in the Gaza division , was also called up on Shabbat . He left synagogue and said goodbye to his family in order to head to his unit , which is usually deployed in northern Gaza . & ldquo ; We took our uniforms and equipment and went to the call - up ,& rdquo ; said Boorstein . This would be his third operation in Gaza . Many reservists who had been out of the unit for years wanted to join and help . Meanwhile , Roe Bergman , a company commander in Kfir , was also awakened at home . His unit was deployed near Nablus in the West Bank . He , too , donned his fatigues , got his equipment and weapon , and began preparing for war .& ldquo ; I took my equipment and my rifle , and we headed south ,& rdquo ; he recounted . & ldquo ; During the drive , we began to understand how large the attack was , and we arrived near Kibbutz Re & rsquo ; im , driving from Netivot and then through the fields .& rdquo ; Soon afterwards , the soldiers heard the sound of fighting . They arrived at the kibbutz , where they met the unit & rsquo ; s commanding officer . The extent of the attack and horror of the day began to sink in . Twenty - five kilometers north of Re & rsquo ; im is another community , Or HaNer , near Sderot . Barak Cohen , a member of the kibbutz & rsquo ; s security team , was also woken up by sirens . The community is two kilometers from the border . He heard from his security team , the Kita Konenut , that they needed to go help their colleagues in Erez , a kibbutz even closer to Gaza , just across the road . The men got their weapons and ammunition and rushed to Erez . The security detail living there were facing a difficult situation , with terrorists infiltrating from the border and shooting from bushes and tree lines . The civilians were all sheltering at home . It was feared that the terrorists had already broken into the kibbutz .& ldquo ; Immediately , I and another member of the Konenut went to Erez ; we found the leader of Konenut , and he took us to the location . We saw one person dead , from Konenut , at the entrance to a house , and there was a lot of shooting at us and bullets over our heads . We tried to respond with fire .& rdquo ; It was still early in the morning , but as the fighters began to arrive at various locations , they became aware of the extent of the attack . The IDF was still mobilizing . Many units on the border had been overrun . Retaking Gaza border towns after Hamas massacred hundreds of civiliansNo one had any idea that already hundreds of civilians were being massacred . THE COUNTERTERRORISM Lotar mission deals with complex hostage situations . In general , upon arrival it assesses the situation and uses precision tactics and special tactics to neutralize terrorists . & ldquo ; I have to be certain about every shot that I take and be responsible for every bullet that comes out of my rifle ,& rdquo ; said Ran . The team is supposed to be an QRF ( quick reaction force ), along with other elite units such as Shaldag , Duvdevan , and Seyeret Metkal . On Saturday , it had to deal with a massive terrorist wave swamping the entire border and threatening 20 communities and some 60 , 000 people . The QRF always has a unit on standby that can proceed to a scene . By 7 : 30 a . m ., the first unit had arrived in Sderot . This was a four - man team , and it was confronting a situation where , according to some estimates , 250 terrorists had tried to infiltrate the city .& ldquo ; As the first team went to Sderot , my team member and I went to the unit and began mobilizing the team [ to operate ] alongside the Gaza Strip , from south to north , to see how we could create some safety net around the Strip in order to push and make it more organized when the entire military arrives and joins the fight ,& rdquo ; Boorstein explained . As he proceeded to join his unit , he said , all the reservists had received the gear that they needed . This was in contrast to some reports of reservists showing up and saying they lacked some important items .& ldquo ; Every soldier who came got a weapon and helmets and everything needed , including water , food , and ammunition . We have it all .& rdquo ; Meanwhile , Bergman & rsquo ; s Kfir unit had retaken Re & rsquo ; im .& nbsp ; There had been some 40 terrorists there , and they were neutralized . The unit killed 10 of them . Then they began to assist in the rescue of people . In one home , people were hiding in a shelter , and terrorists were in the house . The unit came to the door and managed to throw grenades , killing the terrorists and rescue those hiding . TWO TERRORIST bodies were found . It took two days to secure the entire area . Then the unit went to Kibbutz Be & rsquo ; eri , where there had been a massacre and more than 100 bodies were found . This was a difficult battle . Now Bergman has been sent to the North , and another unit had replaced theirs . For Ran and the QRF , the battle had just begun .& nbsp ; The Lotar went street by street in Sderot , clearing the city of terrorists . They killed at least 15 among the enemy . They said terrorists were operating in many places , and the initial chaos meant that the enemy seemed to be everywhere . One member of the Lotar was killed in Sderot ; another was wounded . The team of 12 , bolstered by other members who had just arrived , was then led by the sergeant , who took over for the wounded commander . & ldquo ; By 8 : 30 to 9 a . m ., a lot of special forces units were joining us to create this safety net in Sderot , and they continued the fighting ,& rdquo ; Ran recounted . The unit was also involved in retaking and securing the military base near Nahal Oz , where , Ran estimated , there were 150 IDF casualties . Some were killed and burned alive , he said . & ldquo ; You can imagine what they did to the bodies , and the amount of things I & rsquo ; ve seen , it & rsquo ; s not even close to what a human being is . I can & rsquo ; t imagine what drives them to do such things ... We saved as many soldiers as we could ; some were trapped and hiding alongside the outpost .& rdquo ; After securing the area , they moved along the security fence to an IDF outpost called Taga . There , they found a scene from a horror movie . It was quiet , silent even . Yet the war was raging along the border . The Golani brigade was supposed to be in Taga . The counterterrorism forces had 28 members by this time , including some from Oketz , the unit that operates with specially trained dogs . Ran praised one of the dogs for saving lives in the battle . As they moved through the outpost , which seemed abandoned , suddenly they saw two shapes in the distance . It could be a hostage situation , they feared . But it turned out to be two terrorists , and the Israeli fighters shot them . It took about 30 minutes to clear the area , and they saved five Golani soldiers who were sheltering . & ldquo ; We scanned another site nearby that belongs to another Israeli security service of Israel .& rdquo ; When the area was secure , they moved on to another mission and drove to Nir Yitzhak , a kibbutz . & ldquo ; It was Saturday night . We were guarding around the kibbutz and making sure no terrorists were infiltrating the kibbutz lines . By now , reserve teams were mobilized to Be & rsquo ; eri . There was a whole massacre there of 100 to 200 civilians ; none of them were armed ,& rdquo ; he said . He then joined IDF units from Shayetet , Shaldag , Yamam and others to retake the area . It took 18 hours of fighting . Then they helped evacuate people from Kissufim , Nir Yitzhak , Sufa , Kerem Shalom , and other places . ON OCTOBER 7 , the QRF faced an unbelievable challenge never seen before in Israel . With 20 locations under attack and approximately six units trained for these kinds of situations , they had to prioritize where to go first . For instance , Shaldag and Seyeret Matkal went to Sderot . Others went to Be & rsquo ; eri and Ofakim . Many areas were left for the locals to defend , as they had to wait for the army to arrive . That was the case in Erez . Cohen and his small team from the two communities were able to save the kibbutz from slaughter by laying down fire and keeping the enemy away from the community & rsquo ; s entrance . However , they felt surrounded for many hours and knew there were enemy snipers nearby .& ldquo ; From 7 to 11 a . m ., no one came to support us ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; We didn & rsquo ; t know what was happening . We wondered & lsquo ; Where is the army ?& rsquo ; Then we understood that there was a large attack .& rdquo ; They felt alone . The enemy brought up an RPG ( rocket - propelled grenade ) and fired at them . It hit a house , but luckily the family inside survived . They heard the sound of tanks in the distance but didn & rsquo ; t know what was happening . At Or HaNer , there was concern that terrorists could strike . Cohen faced the difficult choice of whether to send two members of the team back to his community or to keep them in Erez . They stayed in Erez . There was a buzzing , perhaps a helicopter in the distance . But the din of shooting meant it was hard to know . Eventually , the army arrived at 11 a . m . and rescued the security team . An entire community was saved . Others had been massacred . Cohen was then called up to his unit and began serving near his community . & ldquo ; The casualties we had was the member of the Konenut who died , and two wounded that we managed to rescue from the terrorists ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; We had a very complex situation .& rdquo ; He emphasized it is important to understand that in the most recent days of the war , his battalion experienced success . & ldquo ; We are approaching victory . We are a strong nation with a strong army .& rdquo ; BOORSTEIN & rdquo ; S UNIT defended communities around Gaza during the fighting on Saturday and in the days after . He has a long record of experience in these types of battles , having served in the 2006 Lebanon War and in this year & rsquo ; s Operation Break the Wave and Operation Shield and Arrow . Despite the initial setbacks on Saturday and the massacre of civilians , he stressed that Israel will win this war .& ldquo ; We will rebuild & ndash ; here and everywhere in Israel ,& rdquo ; he said , adding that all of Israel saw the hellish story that unfolded on Shabbat . Everyone watched the news and saw & ldquo ; very difficult images .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; But despite how hard it is , we will win and change and become a stronger society as Israel knows how to do .& rdquo ; 