Israel has remained officially silent regarding reports that a team of Mossad agents were captured during a botched operation to kidnap a Hamas operative in Malaysia . On Tuesday , the first images of the group of 11 suspects & mdash ; 10 men and one woman & mdash ; were published as they were brought to the court where they were charged .& nbsp ; Sebelas individu termasuk seorang wanita didakwa di Mahkamah Majistret Kuala Lumpur atas pertuduhan menculik seorang lelaki warga Palestin bagi mendapatkan maklumat berkaitan perisian yang digunakan untuk menggodam telefon bimbit .📹 Diana Barka | Bernama pic . twitter . com / VlECq54rHn & mdash ; BERNAMA (@ bernamadotcom ) October 14 , 2022 " The Israelis wanted to know about his experience in computer application development , Hamas ' strength in developing software , members of the Al - Qassam Brigade that he knew and their strengths ." Malaysian New Straits Times source & nbsp ; The botched Mossad operationThe abduction - style capture of the Gazan man , whose ties to Hamas were allegedly subject to a Mossad investigation , occurred in Kuala Lumpur on September 28 , according to local press . Malaysian mercenaries allegedly operating on behalf of the Mossad drove up to two Palestinian nationals , who were reportedly computer programming experts . They dragged one into the vehicle & ndash ; warning the other to stay away & ndash ; and drove him to a secretive location , where he was tied up and forced to answer questions via a video call with Israeli agents , the Malaysian New Straits Times & nbsp ; reported ." The Israelis wanted to know about his experience in computer application development , Hamas ' strength in developing software , members of the Al - Qassam Brigade that he knew and their strengths ," a source told the paper . Malaysian security forces freed the Palestinian man and arrested the alleged Mossad operatives 24 hours later , as the second alleged victim lodged a report at a Kuala Lumpur police station about 40 minutes after the abduction . Malaysia and HamasOn Tuesday , Malaysian Home Minister Datuk Seri Hamzah Zainudin said the government would take action if the reports were true ." We should look into matters [ allegations ] like this , then we will announce [ further action ]," he said according to the Straits Times report . In 2020 , a Gazan imam was sentenced to a year in jail for smuggling funds from Malaysian charities to Hamas , and in 2018 a Hamas - affiliated Palestinian engineer from the Gaza Strip was shot dead in Kuala Lumpur in what many suspected was a Mossad assassination .