Religious Services Minister Michael Malkieli was interviewed on Wednesday evening by the Channel 14 program ' The Patriots ,' where he told them they are preparing for " major scenarios " in the North ." The Religious Services Ministry entrusted with burials is preparing itself for major scenarios in the North . We are having meetings for big things in the North ," Malkieli told Channel 14 . השר מלכיאלי חושף בפטריוטים : " המשרד לשירותי דת שאמון על מערכת הקבורה מכין את עצמו לתרחישים בצפון . לא הכל אפשר לומר באולפנים , אבל עושים ישיבות במשרד להיערך לדברים גדולים יותר בצפון "# הפטריוטים @ itamarfleishe pic . twitter . com / Ilquw6ROlT & mdash ; עכשיו 14 (@ Now14Israel ) June 19 , 2024After mentioning in passing that they were preparing for " major scenarios ," the hosts asked him what he meant by that . Malkieli explained that they had to be prepared for such events in general .& nbsp ; Unsatisfied with the explanation , the hosts asked him whether there had been specific conversations about an escalation in the North . Malkieli told them that even before October 7 , they had called on the government for help in preparing for emergency burials , explaining they would need to be informed so they could prepare and that they were having such meetings now . Malkieli also commented on the current crisis of the " Rabbi Law ," saying it was " born as a result of a harsh report by the State Comptroller on the failure to appoint city rabbis in dozens of cities in Israel ."" Happily and sadly , I am inundated with thousands of inquiries from citizens as to why they do not have a city rabbi ," he said . Shas will not topple a right - wing governmentHe also rejected the idea that Shas would topple the government , saying , " No one will preach to us about the right - wing government . Shas chairman Deri personally dedicated his life to each and every vote during the Bennett - Lapid government to cause them defeat and the subsequent establishment of the right - bloc and the current government . Shas leads in actions of the right , not in talking about the right ." Malkieli blamed the current governmental paralysis on internal right - wingers siding with the left : " Certain right - wing elements in the Knesset , in the government and the media , joined forces with the left to fight against religion , some of them out of ignorance . The fight against the law was supposed to be from left - wing elements & mdash ; not our [ coalition ] partners ."