The government , rabbis , and general public have been at their wits & rsquo ; ends arguing about whether and how to encourage haredi ( ultra - Orthodox ) yeshiva students to join the Israel Defense Forces and / or get an academic education to be able to support their families and strengthen the economy . According to newly published research supported by the Edmond de Rothschild Foundation and published in the journal Learning , Culture , and Social Interaction , 93 . 8 % of haredi students at the Jerusalem College of Technology ( JCT ) described having a positive experience in volunteer programs . Haredi students & rsquo ; participation in volunteer programs offered by their colleges can make other members of their community more inclined to enroll in higher education , the study reveals . The study , led by Dr . Zvika Orr , Prof . Edith Blit - Cohen , Maya Vardi , Bina Beieri , and Prof . Daphna Golan - Agnon , found that student volunteers from underrepresented minority groups like Israel & rsquo ; s ultra - Orthodox sector can bridge the gap between academic institutions and their communities by serving as agents of societal change .& ldquo ; This is the first study to explore community engagement programs involving haredi students , and it is our hope that the findings can serve as a template for analyzing students & rsquo ; community engagement among various minority groups worldwide ,& rdquo ; said Orr , a senior lecturer in the Selma Jelinek School of Nursing at JCT , who , along with Dr . Adi Finkelstein , is the co - founder and co - director of the college & rsquo ; s Lev Bakehila community engagement program . The paper examined responses from questionnaires and in - depth qualitative interviews with students enrolled at JCT , many of whom are first - generation students . A case study on JCT students contained within the report aimed to show how social engagement can impact minority and underrepresented groups navigating the academic world . Student responses were based on several volunteer programs , including Perah , a volunteer framework in which college students serve as tutors to younger children and provide them with academic and emotional assistance ; Lev Bakehila , where students work to promote the rights of people with disabilities affiliated with Jerusalem & rsquo ; s haredi community ; and the Payis Scholarships and Impact Program , in which students engage in volunteer work in a variety of fields and organizations , such as schools , community centers , hospitals , and assisted - living facilities . Haredi student volunteers : experience is informative and enriching & ldquo ; Through their community engagement , haredi students act as agents of knowledge and change in their communities . Although this process is wrought with challenges and dilemmas , the haredi student volunteers described their experiences as informative and enriching . This case study illuminates how community engagement can help underrepresented students cope with navigating their communities and the academic world ,& rdquo ; said Prof . Blit - Cohen of the Paul Baerwald School of Social Work and Social Welfare at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem ( HU ). Responses from students participating in the study revealed that their community engagement experiences helped them bridge the gap between the haredi and academic worlds . The authors said that community engagement serves as a positive catalyst among the ultra - Orthodox because volunteering coincides with one of the basic religious and cultural values practiced in their community , where the prevailing discourse emphasizes charitable and benevolent endeavors , acts of loving kindness , and compassion . Additionally , community engagement work helped them foster social change within their communities . During their service , they were able to formulate a new perception of social phenomena and offer this newly adopted perspective within their communities . In the interviews , those involved in a disability rights project , for example , mentioned their sense of commitment to changing social perceptions about people with disabilities in their haredi communities and beyond . Along with the many well - documented social and academic benefits associated with community engagement , volunteer service also reflects JCT & rsquo ; s institutional commitment not only to excellence on academic and religious levels but also to fulfilling the college & rsquo ; s responsibility to make positive contributions to society . The study & rsquo ; s authors chose to spotlight haredi students because they are often caught at the crossroads between their community and academia . According to the Central Bureau of Statistics ( CBS ), in 2020 , only four percent of Israeli students were ultra - Orthodox , less than a third of their share in the college - aged population , and the dropout rate among haredi students is almost three times higher ( 23 . 9 %) than the rate among non - haredi Jewish students ( 8 . 2 %).& ldquo ; Given our findings , we are calling for more inclusive community engagement programs that reflect and further enhance the diversity in higher education ,& rdquo ; Orr concluded . & ldquo ; It appears that the key solution for the optimal integration of haredi students in community engagement programs should be understanding the unique needs and cultural sensitivities of this community .& rdquo ;