An IDF soldier was detained by Israel Police and will be investigated on suspicion that he took part in the clashes and riots in the West Bank village of Umm Safa on Saturday afternoon , according to the IDF Spokesperson ' s Unit . Israeli settlers clashed with Palestinians and set fire to homes and vehicles in Umm Safa on Saturday afternoon , the IDF confirmed . Israeli security forces had arrived at the scene to disperse the riots and in the process , arrested one Israeli citizen . During the clashes in Umm Safa , another IDF soldier was wounded by a rock thrown toward him . He received treatment at the scene . Lapid : Settler violence is a moral disgrace , national security threatSettler violence has " crossed every line ," opposition head MK Yair Lapid wrote on Twitter in reaction to the clashes in the West Bank ." Setting fire to vehicles and homes of innocent civilians is not human , certainly not Jewish ," the former prime minister wrote . " Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu must condemn this travesty and treat with utmost urgency . Lapid added that the scenes seen across the West Bank the past week are a " moral disgrace and a national secruity threat ." אלימות המתנחלים חוצה כל גבול . הצתת בתים ומכוניות של חפים מפשע זה לא אנושי ובטח לא יהודי . ראש הממשלה נתניהו צריך לגנות את הביזיון ולטפל בחומרה . זוהי חרפה מוסרית ואיום ביטחוני . pic . twitter . com / mzwwBZSxFH & mdash ; יאיר לפיד - Yair Lapid (@ yairlapid ) June 24 , 2023German Ambassador in Israel Steffen Seibert also condemned the Umm Safa riots , saying that " recent terror attacks cannot serve as an excuse " for settler violence ." It is Israel ' s responsibility to safeguard life and security of all inhabitants of the occupied territories ," Seibert wrote on Twitter . The Umm Safa Council head stated that four houses and 20 vehicles were set on fire , and another 15 houses were also damaged in the incident .& nbsp ; Defense Minister Yoav Gallant condemned the violent activities in the West Bank village . This is a developing story .