A new weapons deal with Israel is under consideration by US officials , Politico reported on Monday . 50 F - 15 fighter jets , 30 AID - 120 advanced medium - range air - to - air missiles , and a & ldquo ; number of joint direct attack munition kits , which turn dumb bombs into precision - guided weapons ,& rdquo ; are being considered for the American weapons sale to Israel , according to Politico . While the sale is still waiting for US approval , a congressional aide revealed that the Biden administration is very likely approve the sale . However , it is important to note that according to Politico & rsquo ; s report , it would & ldquo ; be years before the weapons arrive in Israel .& rdquo ; Politico further reported that when asked for a response , the US State Department spokesperson said " the department does not comment on potential future sales .& rdquo ; This development occurs amid mounting criticism of the Biden administration ' s stance on arms sales to Israel , " as the death toll rises in Gaza .& rdquo ; In another sign of growing tensions between the two allies , Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer ' s recent call for Israeli elections sparked a controversy last month among Israeli political leaders . Politico further reports that the sale & ldquo ; comes amid a rift among Democrats & rdquo ; regarding the question of Biden & rsquo ; s responsibility in pressuring Israel & ldquo ; not to launch a large - scale invasion & rdquo ; of Rafah through arms sales . Israeli hostages , US concerns , and weapons dealPolitico noted the concern for the remaining Israeli hostages , and that & nbsp ; officials are still attempting to negotiate for their release in exchange for Palestinian prisoners . Additionally , the US expressed concerns about Israeli plans for an operation in Rafah , emphasizing the need to protect civilians . " Going into Rafah without a plan to protect civilians would be a mistake ," US officials said . Meanwhile , recent Israeli airstrikes in Syria have heightened tensions in the region . Amid these shifting incidents , discussions between US and Israeli officials continue . Politico reported that the US has requested Israel & ldquo ; in recent weeks not to mount a full - on ground offensive in [ Rafah ], because more than 1 million civilians are sheltering there . Most of the Israeli hostages are also believed to be somewhere in the city .& rdquo ; Politico ends their report by saying that this newly considered arms deal with Israel comes following a & nbsp ; Washington Post article that the Biden administration was moving forward with a years - old arms package for Israel . This deal would include additional arms not mentioned in this new deal . Responses to the considered weapons dealDemocratic senator Chris Van Hollen said that " blocking sales of offensive weapons should be under consideration ,& rdquo ; according to Politico & rsquo ; s report . Former State Department official Josh Paul , who resigned from his position & ldquo ; in protest over America & rsquo ; s continued lethal assistance to Israel ,& rdquo ; alleged that the proposed arms sale is & ldquo ; further proof & rdquo ; of continued US support for Israel .