Two Hamas terrorists , a father and son , confessed to raping innocent Israeli civilians before killing them on October 7 , the Daily Mail reported Thursday . Jamal Hussein Ahmad Radi , a 47 - year - old Palestinian from Gaza , was described as shameless , and his 18 - year - old son , Abdallah , was called evil in the report . The report focused on a video in which the two terrorists described murdering civilians in their homes , kidnapping victims , and raping women before murdering them . The report described how the two terrorists confessed to invading Israel and infiltrating Kibbutz Nir Oz , where & ldquo ; in each house where [ they ] found someone , [ they ] either killed them or kidnapped them .& rdquo ; The father described how he had raped a crying woman while holding her at gunpoint , and that after 15 minutes , he left her but did not know what happened to her afterward . According to the son & rsquo ; s confession , however , his father did not provide the investigators with the entire truth . The son said his father had killed the woman after she was raped by multiple people , including himself , the report said .& ldquo ; My father raped her , then I did , and then my cousin did , and then we left ,& rdquo ; he was quoted as saying . & ldquo ; But my father killed the woman after we finished raping her .& rdquo ; Another woman was raped by the two terrorists , as well as two more people who were raped by the father , the report said , saying he had confessed to having & ldquo ; raped another girl as well ,& rdquo ; and that he & ldquo ; broke into five houses .& rdquo ; Father and son are both in custodyAccording to the IDF , both the father and son are in custody in Israel and awaiting trial . The testimonies arrived two months after a report concerning sexual - violence incidents on October 7 delivered by Pramila Patten , special representative of the UN secretary - general , the report said . Patten & rsquo ; s report was based on interviews with multiple October 7 victims and survivors , as well as investigating the bodies of victims at different morgues .& ldquo ; It was a catalog of the most extreme and inhumane forms of killing , torture , and other horrors ,& rdquo ; the Daily Mail quoted Patten as saying . Some women who were at the Supernova music festival on October 7 were also victims of Hamas & rsquo ; s use of sexual violence as a weapon , the report said . The report ended with an IDF spokesperson being quoted as saying in a video : & ldquo ; Over the past months , we & rsquo ; ve seen countless evidence of the brutal violence used by Hamas on October 7 , including harrowing acts of gender - based and sexual violence . These confessions further prove that any attempt to deny the horrors of October 7 , and discredit the testimonies of witnesses , survivors , and freed hostages , is part of a campaign to delegitimize Israel and to promote the justification of terrorism .& rdquo ;