There has been a sharp rise in misinformation in reporting about Israel in the international media , according to Adam Levick , director of the public diplomacy ( hasbara ) organization CAMERA ( Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting and Analysis )." Lately , we have seen a sharp rise in misinformation and biased reporting against Israel ," Levick told Maariv , The Jerusalem Post ' s sister publication .& nbsp ;" Journalism is important , but journalists know that they need to stick to the facts , so they have to be careful how they report ," noted Levick . " When it comes to the BBC , for example , for the past 12 years , they have been publishing articles against Israel , and BBC Arabic has even celebrated Hamas ' s actions against us ." & nbsp ; He also noted that the British newspaper The Guardian is also biased against Israel . & nbsp ;" Time after time , they write as if we are the bad guys ." Where does the misinformation come from ? According to him , some of the reporting come from a lack of knowledge or misunderstanding of the facts , caused by , among other things , certain op - eds being published in Israel . Levick cited the example of an article published in The Guardian comparing Gaza to an concentration camp . He explained that when the newspaper was contacted about the article , it was said that " the information written in the article was published in an opinion column a few years ago in Haaretz by a senior reporter ."" We must be careful about how things are presented in the media ," he noted .& nbsp ; On the issue of whether to throw Al Jazeera reporters out of Israel , he said : " I believe in freedom of the press , yes there is a precedence for throwing the press out of the country , but I don ' t think it ' s good . We must put their words in the context of hasbara and continue to show that they are wrong ." Christina Jones , a non - Jewish woman who works for CAMERA as a campus manager , said : " My family has a deep connection with Israel , one of my brother ' s friends was killed at the Supernova music festival and the images and stories from the massacre are shocking ."& nbsp ; According to her , she has never seen such antisemitism in universities as she is right now ." What we see right now on campuses in the US , we may soon also see in the UK and in other parts of the world . Students are afraid ," she says , adding that even in Scotland , where she lives , there are serious problems ." It is important to understand that we need to work together so that the international media reports objectively ," Levick said .& nbsp ;" I call on the reporters of the world : Report objectively and check your facts before publishing . This is important for Israeli public diplomacy . It is important to show that Israel is not the enemy ."