The commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps ' Quds Force , Esmail Qaani , claimed that Israel " does not dare to fire a single bullet " at Hezbollah members in Lebanon , during a speech on Tuesday . Qaani referenced the killing of a Hezbollah member in an alleged Israeli airstrike near Damascus in July 2020 and threats by Hezbollah to respond , claiming that " from the day Hezbollah declared [ that the member had been killed ], you did not see a single person in an officer ' s uniform on the Zionist front , and everyone had run away ." Qaani ' s comments came just days after a member of the Quds Force who had operated in Syria was assassinated in Tehran , with the IRGC blaming agents affiliated with Israel ' s Mossad . Multiple clashes have taken place along the Lebanese - Israeli border since the airstrike in which the Hezbollah member was killed in 2020 . In August of last year , after Hezbollah fired about 20 rockets towards Israel and the IDF responded with 30 artillery shells towards open areas in southern Lebanon , Hezbollah Secretary - General Hassan Nasrallah stated that the clashes were a " very dangerous development " and the first of their type since the Second Lebanon War in 2006 . The rocket fire came as a Hezbollah response to Israeli airstrikes on southern Lebanon which were conducted in response to earlier rocket fire believed to be from Palestinian groups in the country . Nasrallah stated at the time that no Israeli airstrikes had hit a target in Lebanese territory since the Second Lebanon War , with the exception of what he called " minor violations " and an " ambiguous incident " between the Lebanese and Syrian borders . It is unclear which incident he was referring to . The Hezbollah leader added at the time that the rocket fire was not a response to the killing of the Hezbollah member in Syria . As of Wednesday , Hezbollah had not conducted an attack since 2020 that they claimed as a response to the member ' s killing . In late April , a rocket was fired from southern Lebanon into northern Israel , with the IDF responding with dozens of artillery shells towards sites in southern Lebanon . The retaliatory fire targeted the launch area as well as an unspecified & ldquo ; infrastructure target ,& rdquo ; the IDF Spokesperson & rsquo ; s Unit said at the time .