Not many people alive today have done as much for human freedom and the Jewish people as has Natan Sharansky . Sharansky , born in Donetsk , Ukraine , was the spokesman for the human rights movement , a prisoner of Zion , and a leader of the struggle for the right of Soviet Jews to emigrate to Israel . After applying to " make aliyah ," Sharansky was arrested on charges of treason and espionage . He was convicted in a Soviet court and served nine years in the Gulag . Following massive public campaigns by the State of Israel , world Jewry and leaders of the free world , Sharansky was released in 1986 , and emigrated to Israel , on the very day of his release . In his first years in Israel , Sharansky founded the Zionist Forum to aid Soviet immigrants in their absorption into Israeli society , and , in the 1990s , he founded the Israel Ba ' aliyah party to represent the interests of Russian olim . He served in four successive governments , as a minister , and as deputy prime minister . From 2009 to 2018 , he served as chairperson of the Jewish Agency , and upon his retirement , received the Israel Prize for promoting aliya and the ingathering of the exiles . Sharansky also received the Congressional Medal of Honor in 1986 and the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2006 . He is the only living non - American citizen who is the recipient of these two highest American awards . Clearly , there is almost nothing in the Jewish world and in Israel that Sharansky has not been involved with , in one way or another , in the course of his life . At this challenging time , it seemed appropriate to discuss current events with Sharansky . These are difficult times for us , as a people , as a country , as a society . How have you felt since October 7 ?" Of course , there was a huge failure here of our intelligence , our army , and our politicians . We were deeply invested in incorrect concepts . For me , it all started back with Oslo . I said then , that the idea of our bringing a dictator to the Palestinians who would make peace with us & mdash ; because we would make him a dictator by giving him a lot of money & mdash ; did not make sense . It ' s just the reverse : the dictator would need us as enemies , and therefore would not make peace with us ." It continued even with the withdrawal ( from the Gaza Strip , A . W .). The idea was that we would be here , and they would be there , and we could control them that way . As ( Prime Minister ) Arik Sharon explained to me , if they turned militant and tried something , we would go in . I resigned from the government at that time , because of the disengagement ."" We have become a united society " Sharansky believes it was the spirit of Oslo that caused Israel ' s leadership , at all levels , to act incorrectly , and led to the failures of October 7 . On the other hand , " This event was a reminder of how good it is that we have the State of Israel . There is a poet who wrote that the proximity of Israeli Memorial Day and Holocaust Day helps us understand the price of the world with a state and without a state . When we were in the Soviet Union and there was a surge of antisemitism , could we could fight , go to court ? No ! We just had to get by , take refuge in mathematics and physics , perhaps they ' d leave us alone . Even after 100 , 000 people were killed ( in pogroms ), there was nothing to be done but to run away to America ." Now , we ' re fighting ," Sharansky declares proudly . " We have transformed from a most divided society into a united society . We are all sitting in one tank , and our appreciation for the State of Israel has been renewed . And as much as we called the young generation a TikTok one , it turns out this generation is giving us a lesson in true Zionism , in such a noble , such a brave way . So , good things are happening . I am optimistic about the future of the State of Israel , but far less optimistic about what is happening in America and Europe ." Sharansky tries to explain what he thinks is happening nowadays in the West , both in the Jewish context and the wider one . " The Jews feel they are part of the liberal world , and the liberal world thinks the progressives are their partners . For years , I wrote about the fact that the real crisis in the United States is not between Republicans and Democrats , but between liberals and progressives . I said that one day , the liberals would realize they were not partners ." In his various roles , Sharansky met with many Jews in the West . " I asked Jews at universities , in the most elite places , if any of the organizations they had developed relationships with , befriended over the years , expressed any sympathy after October 7 . I ' m not asking for anything more , just sympathy . They looked and looked , and found one right - leaning organization at Yale that participated in mourning . That ' s it . This means that all the organizations on the progressive left see the terrible things that happened on October 7 as part of a legitimate struggle . This is a big change ; antisemitism came out in a big way ." Sharansky says in the past he had theories about how to prove a connection between antisemitism and anti - Zionism . " Today we no longer need a theory , we don ' t need to show anything , it ' s in everyday life . I hope that the new generation of American Jews will go out in public and fight over this it ." You said you were encouraged by the unity here , but there is a repeat of the tensions we saw before October 7 , isn ' t there ?" There is a comeback , but a group of politicians and a group of journalists are behind it . The masses are not with them today , unlike what happened until October 7 when half the country thought the other half was trying to steal their democracy and the other half thought they were trying to steal their Judaism . Today , the people feel that it is important for everyone that there is a Jewish state , and also a free country , and you can see this with almost every bereaved family of a fallen soldier . Also , we see that , in the moment of truth , suddenly , the real and deep things that unite us still exist . They aren ' t lost ." Marxism is backI spoke not long ago with a researcher named Izabella Tabarovsky who believes that the anti - Zionist rhetoric and progressive left activity stems from the Soviet attitude towards Zionism and Israel . Do you agree with this analysis ?" Yes , of course . I think Izabella is right . There is a large group of people who left he Soviet Union who understand much better than most Americans what exactly happened in America . The whole post - modern ideology that divides the world into oppressed and oppressor is neo - Marxism in its most primitive form . In the studies of critical race theories & mdash ; which have become the Koran of the progressives & mdash ; if you replace race with class , you get the ideology of the Bolsheviks in the Soviet Union . There , too , the whole war is between one good side and one bad side , between the proletariat and the capitalists . The capitalists are always wrong and should not be given freedom of speech & mdash ; aside from those who are considered politically correct . And the capitalist world should be destroyed completely , and a just world will be built on this . It is very sad that Marxism has come back after such a huge failure . It has come back via the academy because it could not come back through politics . It is always like that , the bad ideas always come from the academy ." When did I first realize that this is what had happened ?" Sharansky asks , and immediately answers : " Twenty years ago , I was touring universities in America , and I told Arik Sharon , who was then prime minister , that this was where the most important struggle for Israel ' s future was taking place . I saw there for the first time that students were afraid to say what they thought because it would not be good for their careers . And as soon that starts , it starts taking us towards Soviet life ." How do you overcome this madness ?" Liberal students , first of all Jewish students , should enter the arena , stand up , and take a strong position . A position that says we are Jews , we are Zionists , Zionism is part of our identity , and the United States , according to its principles , must protect us . It is already starting ; 500 students in Columbia issued a very firm letter , and every day more students are joining , and I believe it will reach more universities . In addition , there are now investigations into how Qatar gives tens of billions of dollars to universities . This must be investigated ." Correspondence with NavalnyIn February of this year , American journalist Bari Weiss revealed that during April 2023 , Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny , who was apparently killed in prison , corresponded with Sharansky . Navalny had written to Sharansky , saying he had read " Fear No Evil ," Sharansky ' s account of his years of struggle against communist rule . In the letters , he also quoted from the Bible : " That which hath been is that which shall be ," and said , among other things , that he " continues to believe we will fix it , and that one day in Russia there will be what has not been ." How did your relationship with Navalny come about ?" About a year and a half ago , I suddenly received a letter from Navalny through his lawyer ." A physical letter ?" A handwritten letter that was photocopied and sent to my email ." And what did he say ?" He said , we didn ' t know each other , but he was writing to me as a reader to a writer , because he had read my book and was amazed at how much the situation had gone back to what it was when I was in the Gulag . During my years in prison , I spent 450 days in isolation , Navalny was already almost 300 days in isolation . It is clear from his letter that he is a free man , and of course I wrote that I admired him and his struggle . It was clear this was a very strong man , that he was optimistic , not because of what was happening with him , but that he was optimistic about the victory of his struggle . We had an exchange of letters , and we had a good feeling towards one another ". What was in his last letter to you ?" In the last letter , right before he entered the isolation cell again , he wrote to me : ' I received a letter from you , and I don ' t know when I will be able to write to you again , so I ' m simply writing to you .' What was interesting is that he ended the letter with the words ' Next year in Jerusalem ' in Russian letters & mdash ; the last words in my book . As if he wanted to join the optimism of Jewish history ." You are one of the personages most identified with the word " freedom ." What is freedom to you ?" Freedom is when you can do and say things you believe in . In this respect , in prison I was much freer than those who interrogated me . During the interrogations , I really liked to tell anti - Soviet jokes about Brezhnev . The guards were almost bursting but could not laugh because of the consequences . And I would say to them , ' Well , you want to tell me that I ' m in prison ? You ' re in prison & mdash ; you cannot laugh .' For me , freedom is very much related to identity , because we found the strength to fight for our identity only when we became a free people , and vice versa ." The fact that the West itself has lost its identity is connected to everything we see now . And here Israel has a special role . We are part of the free world , yet still insist on maintaining our identity as a Jewish state ." How did you feel about the judicial overhaul , the conduct of the government , and all the demonstrations ?" I thought both sides were wrong . There was no reason for Netanyahu , who came to power for a four - year term , to try in two months to introduce a law that changes things so significantly . I agreed with most of the elements of the reform except for a few things , but they wanted to do everything immediately . It was a huge mistake . Let ' s say that in the first week Bibi didn ' t understand that [ Minister of Justice Yariv ] Levin was rushing something , okay , but after ten weeks you can already understand it was a mistake ." On the other hand , the demonstrations shouting to the whole world that this is the end of democracy , that this is a dictatorship , that this is the end of women ' s freedom & mdash ; I think that ' s irresponsible . Once one of the organizers of the demonstrations asked me , ' Why don ' t you come to our demonstrations ?' I asked , ' Why do you shout that this is the end of democracy ?' He told me , ' Without it , we wouldn ' t be able to bring along so many people .' That ' s cynical ." Too many years in powerSharansky has known Benjamin Netanyahu since he was a diplomat . Asked his opinion about Netanyahu and his performance these days , he replies that " Bibi is a great politician , a great leader . It ' s not by chance that he has been at the head of this country for so long . When I was in the government , I saw how he fought to liberalize the economy . Thanks to him & mdash ; and I was there & mdash ; there ' s the Taglit - Birthright project , not to mention the fact that he was first in the world to understand the Iranian threat . And when he was Prime Minister and Minister of Finance , he began advancing the sanctions . He also took office after the Oslo Accords , when there were many commitments in place , and he managed to moderate them ." Following this praise , Sharansky comes to his problem with Netanyahu : " I think it ' s not good when a politician stays in power for too long . I told this to Bibi when I left my position at the Jewish Agency . He asked me ' Perhaps you ' d like another term ?' I answered , ' Bibi , more than two terms isn ' t healthy .' He asked , ' Are you telling me that ?' and I said , ' Yes , you too .' When you ' re in a post like that for a long time , you begin to feel that the best thing for the country would be for you to stay in power & mdash ; and then that becomes the goal . And there is no doubt that he has also contributed to the divisiveness here . The fact that he started using the word ' leftist ' as word describing an enemy is very bad ." He should have finished up , and prepared a new generation to replace him , but he felt that there was no - one who could replace him to save the country , and thought ' I need to stay in power '. And this , I think , is a mistake . But I will emphasize again that his contribution to the country has nonetheless been great ."