Thursday , 30 May , 2024 & bull ; 7 : 30 PM Israel Time | 12 : 30 PM EST | 9 : 30 AM PSTTel Aviv University , Israel ' s premier academic institution with its vibrant and sizable student community and renowned academic staff is set to honor nine exceptional individuals for their significant contributions across various domains , including philanthropy , research , culture , and public service . During the 2024 Board of Governors meeting , Chairwoman of the Board Dafna Meitar - Nechmad , President Prof . Ariel Porat , and Rector Prof . Mark Steif will bestow several honorary degrees in a celebratory ceremony . The Hon . Rosalie Silberman Abella , the first Jewish woman appointed to the Supreme Court of Canada , will also be honored . Abella ' s esteemed legal career includes groundbreaking rulings on freedom of religion and expression , employment equity , and corporate accountability . As a former refugee and the youngest person ever appointed to the judiciary in Canada , her legacy is marked by a steadfast commitment to justice and human rights . The field of law and economics will see Prof . Lucian Bebchuk recognized for his influential scholarship and contributions to Israeli legislation and policymaking . His distinguished career spans over four decades , establishing him as one of the world & rsquo ; s most influential scholars in this field . His profound contributions have significantly influenced the evolution of Israeli legislation and policymaking , serving as a testament to his dedication . Dr . Anita Friedman , President of the Koret Foundation , will receive an honorary degree for her efforts in enhancing the quality of life in the Bay Area , promoting Jewish peoplehood , combating antisemitism , and strengthening US - Israel ties . Prof . Andrea Goldsmith , an esteemed figure in wireless communications and the Dean of Engineering and Applied Science at both Princeton and Stanford Universities , will be honored for her pioneering work that has significantly improved cellular and Wi - Fi services worldwide .& nbsp ; Among the most interesting recipients is one of Israel ' s most celebrated influential and successful musician , composer , music producer , radio host , and singer - songwriter Shlomo Artzi , who will be recognized for his extraordinary contributions to Israeli music and culture over five decades . Another groundbreaking entrepreneur , Yehuda Naftali , known for pioneering the open - air shopping center concept in Israel and successfully introducing it to the US market , will be honored for his innovative contributions and philanthropic efforts , particularly his support of the Yehuda Naftali Botanic Garden at TAU .& nbsp ; Adv . Dan Yakir , a leading human rights lawyer and Chief Legal Counsel of the Association for Civil Rights in Israel , will be recognized for his dedication to civil liberties and his role in numerous landmark rulings . Finally , Prof . Daniel Simberloff from the University of Tennessee will receive an honorary degree for his legendary achievements in ecology , conservation biology , and invasive species management , which have greatly contributed to biodiversity protection . These honorary degrees are a testament to Tel Aviv University ' s commitment to recognizing global leaders who excel in their fields and positively impact society . As part of a four - day event , the celebration will continue with a special red - carpet interview session hosted by The Jerusalem Post , giving center stage to the achievements and insights of these remarkable individuals . This article was written in cooperation with Tel Aviv University .& nbsp ;& nbsp ;