Last week saw an interesting discussion around China playing a possible role in peacemaking between Israel and the Palestinians . The discussion illustrates China & rsquo ; s growing role in the Middle East . After China helped broker a deal between Saudi Arabia and Iran , it appeared that Beijing could solve many problems by posing as an outsider with no real agendas or baggage . China & rsquo ; s foreign minister indicated that Beijing could play a role in Israel - Palestinian peace talks , according to reports last week . He had separate calls with Israel and the Palestinians , The Guardian reported .& ldquo ; The separate phone calls between the Chinese foreign minister , Qin Gang , and the Israeli and Palestinian top diplomats comes amid recent moves by Beijing to position itself as a regional mediator ,& rdquo ; the report said . According to an article at Al - Ain media in the UAE , for many years , & ldquo ; China maintained good relations with the Palestinians and the Israelis , but it did not present itself as a mediator to resolve the conflict between the two parties .& rdquo ; China has now played a role bringing Saudi Arabia and Iran together , however , so why not tackle another area of tensions , the report said .& ldquo ; Israel considers the United States to be the exclusive mediator in its conflict with the Palestinians , and has always rejected European , UN and Russian mediation ,& rdquo ; it said . It appears the Palestinians think the Chinese might play a positive role . This was raised by Palestinian Authority Foreign Minister Riyad al - Maliki last week . However , China is now perceived as a rival by the US , and Washington has been clear to Israel and other countries that they should be wary of China & rsquo ; s influence , especially as that might relate to sensitive technology . This is at the heart of several controversies over the years , such as China investing in ports or communications . Because Israel has such close ties to the US and Israeli defense companies have many US partners , there is an increased spotlight on China & rsquo ; s role in the region . In fact , China & rsquo ; s growing influence in Israel appeared to peak a few years ago . China is reaching out to the Palestinians . Beijing says it supports the PA , seeks to continue assisting the Palestinians and backs the two - state solution . The Chinese said they would welcome visits by Palestinian officials . So how would China facilitate peace talks with Israel and the Palestinians ? SO HOW would China facilitate peace talks with Israel and the Palestinians ? Considering how China signed a 25 - year deal with Iran recently , is it an impartial actor today ? The global shifts that are taking place in the wake of COVID and Russia & rsquo ; s invasion of Ukraine may have changed things so much that Beijing would find it to be an uphill struggle these days . Nevertheless , China appeared to have message discipline on this issue . It has spoken to Israel and the Palestinians . Chinese President Xi Jinping appears serious . There are several ways this could develop , and China could try to mediate more and play a larger role . This will put Israel in an awkward position . If Israel appears to not be interested , it could cause China to see Israel in a negative light and begin to invest more in ties with the Palestinians and Iran . Tehran has interests here as well . Iran & rsquo ; s agenda is to undermine the PA and spread chaos in the Palestinian cities via weapons smuggling . China is officially against militants , terrorists and chaos . Beijing claims to want stability in the region , and it wants deals between parties in conflict so that it can develop trade relations . China has been talking up its Belt and Road Initiative for years . This was supposed to knit the region together in economic terms . However , once again , the Russian war in Ukraine and US - China tensions have changed things . Russia & rsquo ; s war accelerates processes in international relations , which means it accelerates China & rsquo ; s confrontation with the West . Despite France & rsquo ; s outreach , Beijing is indicating it supports Moscow undermining the global rules - based international order . Beijing continues to make comments about the Baltic states that cause dismay in the West . On the other hand , as the Belt and Road Initiative may not be as important these days , because the world is more divided , and China & rsquo ; s soft , quiet and consistent approach to influence building in the region has shifted , it & rsquo ; s not clear if the economic - stability model is even relevant . For instance , for many years , we were told that linking Russia & rsquo ; s economy to Europe would reduce the chances of war . In the end , this globalization neoliberal agenda failed because China and Russia have shown that despite economic links , they have become more nationalist , authoritarian and hostile to the West . Thus , democratic peace or Belt and Road have not come to fruition . Therefore , how will China & rsquo ; s talk of brokering peace deals come to fruition ? For China , the role of mediator is bolstered by it not having a major historic role in the region . On the other hand , it suffers from declining perceptions of neutrality in the region as it plays a greater role here . That means countries all pour into China their hopes and beliefs of what it might be to the region , and as with all diminishing returns and feedback loops , it will inevitably come up short because you can & rsquo ; t be all things to all people . The region has a history of having expectations and then being angry when they aren & rsquo ; t met . At the same time , China doesn & rsquo ; t have a long historic track record of mediation or solving conflicts . The US , despite its baggage , does have a long role of helping end conflicts . This goes back more than 100 years , when Teddy Roosevelt & rsquo ; s administration helped end the Russo - Japanese War . China & rsquo ; s track record closer to home at ending conflicts does not bode well for peacemaking in the region . A more powerful China is clearly rising , and it is willing to take risks , such as working with the Saudis and Iranians . That may not mean that what it achieved in those talks can be replicated .