THERE & rsquo ; S A changing of the guard at Hadassah Academic College where Prof . Ariela Gordon - Shaag is succeeding Prof . Bertold Fridlender , who has held the position for the past 12 years . Gordon - Shaag will officially take up her position on July 1 . HAC has grown considerably over the past decade , offering BA and MA degrees and doubling its student population , which now stands in excess of 4 , 500 . Gordon - Shaag completed her BA in 1990 at Columbia University with a major in chemistry ( magna cum laude ). She earned her MSc and PhD in 2002 at the Hebrew University , specializing in genetics and molecular biology . Her interest in vision science developed during her post - doctoral training at the University of Washington and continued at the Hebrew University , where she studied phototransduction . In 2007 , she established HAC & rsquo ; s master & rsquo ; s program in optometry and directed it until 2013 . She subsequently became the chairperson of the Department of Optometry at the college , serving in that position from 2014 - 2023 . She was recently appointed chair of the Interdisciplinary Faculty for Sciences , Health and Society . Gordon - Shaag & rsquo ; s current research interests are in the cornea , keratoconus , and the etiology of myopia . She has published numerous scientific papers in peer - reviewed journals on these topics . Her studies in environmental and behavioral factors associated with myopia have been aided by a grant from the Binational Science Foundation . In recent years , HAC has undergone significant development in its curricula and research projects and is now in the process of planning future strategies . Gordon - Shag is a great believer in innovation and has taken innovative approaches in her own research . Purim fun in Jerusalem ■ BEARING IN mind that Purim this year will not be quite as merry a festival as usual , Danny Bonfil , chairman of the Jerusalem district division of the Histadrut labor federation , and Avi Edery , CEO of Cinema City , put their heads together to devise a memorable and exciting Purim event , designed particularly to bring some cheer to all the displaced children in Jerusalem who were evacuated from their homes . They came up with & ldquo ; Fantasy in the Circus & rdquo ; directed by Yaniv Suissa , which is part of a larger carnival and will thrill both adults and children & ndash ; thereby making it a family affair . It will , of course , be open to the permanent residents of Jerusalem . Entrance is free of charge , which is a real boon to parents of large families . A tribute to a late president ■ THE ENGLISH - SPEAKING Sophie Udin Club of Na & rsquo ; amat will hold a memorial tribute to its late president Judy Telman at 1 p . m . on Wednesday , March 27 . Telman , who spent more than half of her life in Chicago , came on aliyah in 1983 , joined the Sophie Udin Club and spent many years as its president , continuing until her death on February 26 at the age of 92 . Her friends say that even as she lay dying in hospital , she continued to care for Na & rsquo ; amat and its fundraising projects , and to direct the operations of the club . She was particularly interested in raising funds for projects that help advance and strengthen the status of women in the family , in the workforce , and in society . The tribute luncheon , at the Meshanot building & ndash ; corner of Shalom Aleichem and Jabotinsky streets , where Telman was such a frequent presence over the years & ndash ; will be addressed by Na & rsquo ; amat National President Chagit Pe & rsquo ; er ; International Coordinator Shirli Shavit ; and head of Jerusalem Na & rsquo ; amat Ilana Daniel . Telman & rsquo ; s son Muki Telman , who lives at Kibbutz Grofit , and Edith Paller , representing the Sophie Udin Chapter , will also speak . Jewish heroines ■ OPINION IS divided as to whether Mordechai or Esther is the true hero of Purim , although conventional wisdom has credited Esther with being the savior of her people . But heroes and heroines often depend on how much one knows of the story . There are some who would give kudos to Vashti , who defied the king by refusing to appear at his banquet . It & rsquo ; s not certain whether she was banished or executed by way of punishment , but suffice it to say that she disappeared , and the path was open for Esther . History might have turned out quite differently had Vashti been more obedient . In fact , there would not be a Purim on which to celebrate . Esther was neither the first nor the last of Jewish heroines . We have seen ample evidence of that in the current Swords of Iron war . Many books have been written about outstanding Jewish women . Some have focused on only one ; others , on a group . Former MK Aliza Lavie recently published her book Iconic Jewish Women : Fifty - nine inspiring , courageous , revolutionary role models for young girls . A launch was held in Jerusalem on Monday night at which Lavie engaged in conversation with Elana Sztokman and Yudit Sidikman . As ambitious as writing a book about 59 inspiring Jewish women is , it still has a way to go to catch up with the Encyclopedia of Jewish Women , the comprehensive , historical saga of Jewish women through the ages compiled and written by Alice and Moshe Shalvi , Alice having died right before the Gaza War . Judging by all the female achievers featured at numerous conferences this year , future historians focusing on the same subject will have a hard time deciding whom to include . greerfc @ gmail . com