Palestinian officials on Tuesday expressed hope that a new Israeli general election will not disrupt Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas & rsquo ; s initiative to convene an international conference for peace in the Middle East early next year .

The officials , who were responding to news about the possibility that Israel may be headed toward its fourth election in March 2021 , also expressed hope that the vote would result in an end to the era of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu .

In October , Abbas sent a letter to United Nations Secretary - General Ant & oacute ; nio Guterres , urging him to hold pressing consultations in coordination with the Middle East Quartet ( US , UN , Russia and European Union ) and the UN Security Council on convening an international conference & ldquo ; with full powers and with the participation of all concerned parties .& rdquo ;

The Palestinians believe the prospects of holding the proposed conference have grown after the victory of US President - elect Joe Biden in the US presidential election .

& ldquo ; The purpose of the international conference is to revive the two - state solution after Netanyahu and [ outgoing US President Donald ] Trump did everything to destroy that option ,& rdquo ; a Palestinian official told The Jerusalem Post . & ldquo ; We are confident that once Trump is out of the White House , we will go back to the two - state solution . We also hope that Israeli voters , when they go to cast their ballots , would understand that Netanyahu and his government are harming Israeli interests by rejecting the two - state solution .& rdquo ;

However , the official said the Palestinians were concerned that new elections in Israel would delay or divert attention from Abbas & rsquo ; s plan to hold an international peace conference .

& ldquo ; If Netanyahu wins again , we expect the Biden administration and the international conference to take real and serious measures to compel Israel to adhere to international resolutions pertaining to the Israeli - Palestinian conflict , especially Security Council Resolution 2334 , which calls for an end to Israeli settlement activities ,& rdquo ; the official said .

While the Palestinians do not meddle in the internal affairs of Israel , another Palestinian official told the Post , they nevertheless would & ldquo ; like to see Israelis vote for candidates who believe in a genuine peace process with the Palestinian people .& rdquo ;

The past four years of the Trump administration & ldquo ; have been very bad for the Palestinians and the peace process ,& rdquo ; the official said . & ldquo ; We hope Israeli voters would be as clever as the Americans who said no to four more years of the Trump administration .& rdquo ;

He , too , expressed concern that new elections in Israel would & ldquo ; hinder & rdquo ; Abbas & rsquo ; s international conference idea .

& ldquo ; The elections will undoubtedly delay our efforts to hold the conference , but this will only be a temporary postponement ,& rdquo ; the official said . & ldquo ; We are optimistic that a Biden administration will endorse the international conference initiative , even if Netanyahu is reelected .& rdquo ;

On Tuesday , Abbas won the backing of Russian President Vladimir Putin for the proposed international parley .

Moscow supports holding an international peace conference and achieving peace and stability in the region on the basis of UN resolutions and international law , Putin reportedly told Abbas during a phone conversation , according to a statement published by WAFA , the PA & rsquo ; s official news agency .