Six months after Operation Guardian of the Walls , the defense establishment is preparing as it expects Hamas to try and damage the border fence between the Gaza Strip and the southern border by blowing up car bombs , infiltrating Israeli territory and hitting soldiers . In an exercise held this week in the Gaza Division , the forces practiced such scenarios , including an infiltration into Israeli territory .
The aboveground barrier , made of steel , is about 65 km long and six meters high . It will extend from Zikim Beach to the Kerem Shalom crossing and its purpose is to prevent terrorists from entering Israeli territory from aboveground .
The defense establishment believes that Hamas leaders understood , as part of the conclusions drawn from Operation Guardian of the Walls , that alongside the attack tunnels , which its people continue to invest in , the organization must develop additional options for operations that it has used effectively in the past , but abandoned in recent years . The security tensions and stalemate in talks with Hamas over an agreement for calm and a prisoner swap agreement , mediated by Egypt , could push the organization to take action against Israel .
According to evaluations , as part of operational orders for when the order is given , Hamas members are training for raids and infiltrations into Israeli territory as well as the use of large explosive vehicles .
As mentioned , the defense establishment is aware of the fact that Hamas is investing a lot of effort in digging new defensive and attack tunnels and in rehabilitating the tunnels damaged in the operation . It is estimated that the route of the attack tunnels is approaching the barrier area , although no tunnel out into Israeli territory is known .

Israel has noticed that in recent months Hamas has been making a major effort to rehabilitate and improve its military capabilities , as a lesson from the operation in which its men found it difficult to hit IDF soldiers and targets along the border .
Among the areas in which Hamas is investing are : cyber warfare , unmanned aerial vehicles ( UAVs ), various airspace methods and anti - tank weapons . The IDF believes that the terrorist organization is not currently interested in a military confrontation due to the need to rehabilitate the Gaza Strip and its military capabilities . The defense establishment has identified a large presence of Hamas restraining forces in order to prevent clashes with the IDF . Recently , Hamas forces even aggressively arrested Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) terrorist operatives , in order to maintain stability in the region at this stage .
In Israel , it is believed that incidents that may occur in security prisons , such as the death of a hunger striking PIJ prisoner , could lead to a terrorist attack and it is estimated that the PIJ is already preparing to carry out attacks . On the other hand , in recent months , Hamas leaders have repeatedly sent messages to the leadership of the PIJ that if the organization acts contrary to the position of the joint factions , its people will not receive military assistance from Hamas , as has already happened twice in recent years .