The IDF thwarted a stabbing attack against civilians at a bus stop at the Giti Avishar junction in the Samaria region of the West Bank , killing the Palestinian terrorist .
No civilians or soldiers were injured in the Friday morning attack .
The soldier who shot at the terrorist described the events of the attack in a video that was sent out to the Israeli media .
& ldquo ; A car stopped near me ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; A terrorist got out of the car wielding a knife , yelled & lsquo ; Allahu Akbar & rsquo ; [ God is great ] and ran toward me . I shot in order to neutralize him .& rdquo ; The IDF explained that the terrorist had run in the direction of a bus stop where both soldiers and civilians were standing .
The IDF later arrested the man who had driven the attacker to the scene . He was not carrying weapons and was taken in for questioning .

Earlier this week , Defense Minister Benny Gantz held a meeting with Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas in an effort to thwart a violent Palestinian uprising in the West Bank .
The rare meeting , which took place in Gantz & rsquo ; s Rosh Ha & rsquo ; ayin home , was the second one between the two leaders . They had met in August in Ramallah .
Last month Palestinian terrorists killed 25 - year - old Yehuda Dimentman and lightly wounded two others . They sprayed bullets at a vehicle as it left the Homesh hilltop in the direction of the Shavei Shomron settlement , in the Samaria region .
In an interview with Army Radio on Thursday , Coordinator of Government Activities in the Territories Maj .- Gen . Ghassan Alian told Army Radio that the situation was tense and that the PA wanted to maintain stability and de - escalate the situation .
Samaria Regional Council head Yossi Dagan visited the scene of the attack .
After praising the soldiers & rsquo ; conduct during the incident , Dagan blamed the government & rsquo ; s policy of not acting strongly enough against terror .
& ldquo ; The Israeli government , unfortunately , is harming its deterrence and losing it time and time again ; we see this in severe attack attempts , over and over again ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; I call on the Israeli government to wake up , and to learn from IDF soldiers how to fight terrorism . Terrorism is not negotiated , terrorism is not embraced : Terrorism is defeated and terrorism is fought and eradicated .& rdquo ;
According to IDF data released midweek , the number of Palestinian shooting and stabbing attacks against Israeli civilians and security forces in the West Bank has doubled to the highest it has been in four years . The data does not include all of December .
There were 31 incidents of Palestinians shooting at Israeli security forces and civilians in 2019 , compared to 61 this year . There were also nine stabbing incidents compared to 18 in 2021 .
Israeli fatalities , however , remained low . Last year there were two victims : St .- Sgt . Amit Ben Yigal , 21 , killed in a military operation in the West Bank village of Yabad , and Esther Horgan , a civilian who was killed while jogging near her home in the Tal Menashe settlement .
This year there were two civilian casualties , both in the Samaria region : Dimentman and Yehuda Guetta , 19 , who was killed at the Tapuah junction .