WHAT & rsquo ; S IN a name ? Does changing the name change the purpose ? Not really . It & rsquo ; s merely a pacifying ploy to placate objectors . We could see that this week with the Jerusalem parade , which while still in the planning stages , started out as the Adloyada , which signifies lots of joy and merriment . When objections were raised by families of the hostages and their supporters , the event was not canceled , but the name was changed to United Purim . Although it was a muted affair compared to the annual parade during the intermediate days of Sukkot , it still attracted a large number of spectators and participants . According to municipal estimates , the attendance figure was in the realm of 30 , 000 . But there were also protesters waving placards with signs that registered displeasure at a festive event being held while no agreement had yet been reached on the return of the hostages . In interviews last week , when the holding of the parade was still a strongly contested issue , Jerusalem Mayor Moshe Lion said that it was a way to bring happiness to the many evacuee children who were being hosted in Jerusalem . On the actual day of the parade , he said that it was not a celebration but a continuation of tradition , adding that Israel & rsquo ; s enemies & ldquo ; will not stop us .& rdquo ; While the frustration of the hostages & rsquo ; families is understandable , they should remember that in Jewish tradition , the Sabbath and Jewish holy days take precedence over grief and mourning , and the week - long shiva mourning period is suspended . As a rabbinically declared holy day , Purim may have less sanctity or strictures than Passover , Rosh Hashanah , Yom Kippur , or Simchat Torah , but it is the only festival where the Jewish people are commanded to enjoy themselves , eat a sumptuous meal & ndash ; and indulge in alcoholic beverages until they lose the ability to discern what is happening around them ( Ad lo yada ). Moshe Lion a guest of honor ■ TWO DAYS prior to the parade , Lion and his wife , Stavit , were guests of honor at the Hazvi Yisrael Synagogue in Talbiyeh . Although Lion did not lead the service or read from the Torah as he has done during past visits , he did give a mini sermon . It was one of the rare occasions in which congregants heard two sermons instead of one . Referencing the Torah portion that begins with the word & ldquo ; zachor & rdquo ; ( remember ), Lion spoke briefly on the importance of remembrance , then launched into his favorite subject : the revolution that has overtaken Jerusalem , and the huge construction boom throughout the city . Indeed , tall towers are now looming in almost every neighborhood , but the mayor should be aware that the foundations of all these towers are well below ground , and in digging them real estate developers are causing damage to the surrounding area . Walking to the synagogue from his home in Rehavia , Lion must have surely noticed all the potholes and cracks in the road and the pavement , which are a blight on Israel & rsquo ; s capital . That situation will only get worse as more cars , motorbikes , scooters , and bicycles traverse the streets . Lack of adequate parking facilities causes increasing numbers of vehicles to park on the pavement , forcing pedestrians to step out into the road . Moreover , electric scooters and two - wheeled vehicles , in addition to parking on the pavement , are also riding there & ndash ; sometimes at extraordinary speeds & ndash ; causing frightening hazards to pedestrians . Is there no one on the city council who cares ? Israel Prize news ■ OVER THE years , there has been no shortage of faculty members of the Hebrew University among Israel Prize laureates , but this year there were special circumstances in the choice of Cochav Elkayam - Levy , a legal expert from HU & rsquo ; s Davis Institute for International Relations , being named among the recipients . She is being recognized for her tireless work to raise awareness about and acknowledgment of the crimes against humanity committed by Hamas on and following Oct . 7 against Israeli women , children , men , and families . Elkayam - Levy established the Civil Commission on Oct . 7 Crimes by Hamas against Women and Children , which aims at giving voice to the victims and their families , raise awareness about the concerning developments in war crimes against women , children , men , and families on and after the massacre , and raise support for this cause . Her award is in the field of Solidarity ( Ahdut Hadadit ), which is a new Israel Prize category . Any prize for an HU faculty member is , by extension , a prize for the university itself . HU President Prof . Asher Cohen said : & ldquo ; The Hebrew University takes immense pride in the profound impact Dr . Cochav Elkayam - Levy has had on raising awareness and acknowledgment of the atrocities committed against Israeli women , children , men , and families on and following Oct . 7 . Her relentless dedication has served as a powerful catalyst for justice and remembrance , inspiring us all to confront adversity with courage and compassion .& ldquo ; We congratulate [ her ] on being awarded the Israel Prize , the state & rsquo ; s highest honor , in a testament to her unwavering commitment to shedding light on one of the darkest chapters of our shared humanity .& rdquo ; Education Minister Yoav Kisch , in praising Elkayam - Levy & rsquo ; s work in the international arena , said that her commitment to exposing the atrocities of Hamas & ldquo ; is a crucial pillar in our ongoing struggle for justice and in our efforts to confront the perpetrators .& rdquo ; He said that her work is deeply valued by the people of Israel , who owe her their heartfelt gratitude . greerfc @ gmail . com