Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu intends to present to the cabinet a new plan for ultra - Orthodox ( haredi ) conscription into the IDF , just one day ahead of a May 16 deadline for the state to outline its plans to the High Court of Justice ahead of an important hearing on June 2 , Minister - without - portfolio MK Benny Gantz revealed in a video statement on Saturday evening . According to a report by KAN , the prime minister intends to hold a preliminary vote in the cabinet on Wednesday in order to include the plan in the legal filing to the High Court , so that the court refrain from forcing the government to begin drafting all haredi men of military age . Negotiations have been ongoing in recent weeks between Government Secretary Yossi Fuchs and representatives of Israel ' s haredi parties in an attempt to reach a compromise , which could then be presented to the government and eventually pass as legislation in the Knesset . However , the sides have yet to announce that such a compromise has been reached . Haredi men have enjoyed a legal exemption from IDF service since Israel ' s founding . However , the most recent law enabling the exemption was ruled unconstitutional in 2017 , and after many delays , officially expired on July 1 , 2023 . The government gave itself an adjustment period to come up with a new plan , but that period ended on March 31 , and the state is required by law to begin drafting some 60 , 000 haredi men of military age into the IDF . Implications of passing draft exemptions & nbsp ; The long - awaited conscription plan could trigger a political crisis . On one hand , Gantz in his Saturday video statement repeated his position that he would not support a bill that will continue to grant sweeping exemptions to haredi men , and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant announced in March that he would not support a plan that did not have Gantz ' s backing . On the other hand , the haredi parties , who are key partners in Netanyahu ' s coalition , have insisted that haredi men continue to receive the option to study in yeshivot full time , and also have argued that the IDF does not enable haredim who do serve to maintain their lifestyle . The departure of either Gantz ' s National Unity party or the two haredi parties ( United Torah Judaism and Shas ) would likely lead to political instability and even the government ' s collapse . Added to this is the ongoing legal case against the government ' s delay in drafting haredi men , and against financial support for military - age students in yeshivot . The High Court on March 28 issued a temporary order to halt the financial support and acknowledging that the state was required by law to draft haredim . The hearing on June 2 , which will be heard in front of an expanded nine - member bench , will debate whether or not to turn the temporary order into a permanent one . Israel Hayom reported on Saturday evening that the government ' s plan includes a gradual rise over ten years of a minimum amount of haredi draftees per year , with the goal being to eventually draft approximately half of eligible draftee every year ( some 6 , 000 & ndash ; 7 , 000 per year , out of some 13 , 000 students per year ). These details could not be independently verified . Plan still exempts approximately half of haredim from IDF serviceGantz claimed in Saturday ' s video that the prime minister was " acting in order to bring a plan that does not promote fair service in the state , harm the IDF draft and Israeli security and resilience ." Gantz also criticized the timing of the prime minister ' s intention to present the plan just two days after Remembrance Day , and accused Netanyahu of " taking apart Israeli society during wartime for political gain ." Fuchs , who is facilitating the negotiations between the involved parties , refuted Gantz ' s claim . In a post on X , he accused Gantz of acting divisively and of criticizing a plan that has yet to be presented in full . It appeared that Gantz ' s criticism of Netanyahu ' s bill addressing the crisis of Haredi exemption / integration into the IDF was less based on having thoroughly reviewed the prime minister ' s latest proposal , as much as the fact that Netanyahu has consistently avoided dialogue on the issue with Gantz along the lives of a major reform . Comments by Netanyahu ' s cabinet secretary also indicated that the new bill could draw out any solution over a decade , a time period usually viewed as making a reform irrelevant in political terms since there will be additional elections before anything serious would change . In contrast to Gantz , Gallant has fallen silent in recent days . His position is that he tried in the recent past to shoot down Netanyahu ' s bill which was trying to repackage an ongoing exemption in practice as a real reform of integrating Haredim into the IDF , but that at this point he cannot single - handedly stop it . Furthermore , if expectations are rising for Gantz to quit the government over the issue of Haredim serving in the IDF , Gallant has made it clear that even if he opposes Netanyahu ' s bill , he will not quit . The defense minister believes that his value as the " adult in the room " in the current government in which he views Netanyahu as often being pushed around by National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir and Finance Minister Betzalel Smotrich , who are less experienced in world affairs , is more important than any statement he might make by resigning , given that the government would still continue . It is also still always possible that four more Likud members could join Gallant to block passage of the bill , but there are no signs that the defense minister has succeeded in gathering such numbers .