Western democratic leaders will soon follow Israel in being hauled before the International Criminal Court unless a way is found to prevent the issuance of warrants against the leaders of the Jewish state , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told ABC on Tuesday .& ldquo ; Every democracy will be pulled into the [ ICC ] dock . We & rsquo ; re first , and you & rsquo ; re next . People understand that ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said , as he appealed to Western powers to intervene in an attempt to halt such action . He spoke one day after ICC Chief Prosecutor Karim Khan announced that he sought arrest warrants for top Israeli and Hamas leaders , including Netanyahu , and Defense Minister Yoav Gallant for crimes against humanity due to IDF actions in the Gaza War .& ldquo ; That has to be stopped . And that has to be resisted . And I can assure you , the vast majority of Israelis and all responsible leaders in the world understand that this should be resisted ,& rdquo ; he said . The ICC pre - trial chamber has yet to approve Khan & rsquo ; s request . If it does , the warrants would be the first issued against leaders of a democratic country . Israel and the United States are not among the 124 countries that are parties to the Rome Statute which governs the ICC . If warrants were issued Netanyahu and Gallant would risk arrest if they traveled to any of those countries , The Norwegian news site Nettavisen reported that the country & rsquo ; s Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide said that if the warrants were issued , his country would arrest Netanyahu and that he believed all the other signatories to the Rome Statute would do the same . Netanyahu told ABC he was not worried about the threat of arrest .& ldquo ; I ' m not concerned at all about our status . I think that the prosecutor should be concerned about his status because he ' s really turning the ICC into a pariah institution .& ldquo ; People are just not going to take it seriously . They see it as a politicized thing . I hope that the judges don ' t turn don ' t confirm what he says because that will make them into a kangaroo court ,& rdquo ; he said . Israeli has been particularly outraged over the equity Khan drew between Israel and the terror organization Hamas , particularly in light of the group & rsquo ; s October 7th invasion of Israel in which it raped , dismembered , and burned alive its victims . Khan is & ldquo ; creating a false symmetry between the democratically elected leaders of Israel and the terrorist chieftains ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said . It & rsquo ; s akin to an ICC Chief Prosecutor seeking arrest warrants for both US and Al - Qaeda leaders in the aftermath of the September 11 attack on the Twin Towers in New York in 2001 , Netanyahu said . It is also akin to the issuance of warrants against both former US President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and former German Chancellor Adolf Hitler , he added . This is & ldquo ; a hit job . It & rsquo ; s not serious ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said . Fanning the flames of antisemitismHe accused Khan of & ldquo ; pouring gasoline on the fires of anti - Semitism that are spreading around the world because he is attacking the one and only Jewish state & ldquo ; which is fighting an existential war against Hamas . Norway was not the only country to back the court . The French Foreign Ministry said it supported the ICC & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; independence and the fight against impunity in all situations . & rdquo ; As far as Israel is concerned , it will be up to the court ' s pre - trial chamber to decide whether to issue these warrants , after examining the evidence put forward by the prosecutor ," the ministry said . Foreign Minister Stephane Sejourne , however , told the National Assembly on Tuesday that the " simultaneous " warrant requests must not establish an " equivalency " between Hamas and Israel ." On one side you have a terrorist group that congratulated itself on the Oct . 7 attacks ... and on the other side you have a democracy , Israel , that must respect international law while conducting a war it did not start ," Sejourne said . Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk stood behind Israel , stating , & ldquo ; An attempt to show that the prime minister of Israel and the leaders of terrorist organizations are the same , and the involvement of international institutions in this , is unacceptable ," Tusk told a news conference . The United States has been particularly vocal in its condemnation of the court , with US President Joe Biden calling Khan & rsquo ; s pursuit of warrants against Netanyahu and Gallant & ldquo ; outrageous .& rdquo ; The United States Ambassador to Israel Jack Lew called it & ldquo ; shameful & rdquo ; and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken called it & ldquo ; wrongheaded & rdquo ; and warned that it complicated efforts to reach a hostage deal . He said he was happy to work with Congress on an appropriate response . Some U . S . lawmakers called for the United States to impose sanctions on the court . In 2020 , the United States imposed sanctions on an ICC prosecutor . The Kremlin said on Tuesday it was very curious that the United States appeared ready to use sanctions against the ICC ." In general , the situation is more than curious in terms of the U . S . attitude and willingness to use sanctions methods even against the ICC ," Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters . In March last year , the ICC issued warrants for the arrest of President Vladimir Putin on war crimes charges . Russia says the warrant against Putin is a meaningless attempt by the West to soil Russia ' s reputation and denies war crimes in Ukraine . Ukraine says Russia committed war crimes . Russia says the West has ignored Ukraine ' s crimes , a charge denied by Kyiv . Biden said last year that the ICC ' s decision to issue an arrest warrant for Putin was justified . The United States has shared details of alleged Russian war crimes in Ukraine with the ICC . Russia is not a party to the Rome Statute , which established the ICC , so Moscow does not recognize the court ' s jurisdiction ." We are not parties to the relevant statute , therefore , we do not recognize the jurisdiction of the court ," Peskov said . Reuters contributed to this report .