Around the Gaza Strip , the morning of the second day of Operation Shield and Arrow began quietly . Communities were told to either go to shelters or remain close by . I drove south from Jerusalem , a drive that took about an hour and a half . The police and army had closed off some areas around the Strip . Traffic from Ashkelon was blocked to Sderot , as these areas were expected to be under direct threat , which extended dozens of kilometers inland . When I arrived on the border , it was still quiet , without much traffic . There are still industries operating around the border , so there are many people who have to use the roads . I had been in this area many times before during numerous conflicts over the last two decades . Most of the landscape is fields , and there were a few soldiers who had set up a checkpoint south of Ashkelon near Yad Mordechai and the turnoff to Karmiya . I drove out toward Karmiya and Zikim Beach until there were more roadblocks . Then I paused and wondered what would come next . The radio said people could leave their shelters . Israel had carried out strikes against sites in Khan Yunis and Beit Lahiya . I could see smoke rising from Beit Lahiya . As I began to drive back towards a hill that overlooks the border area , I could see streaks of white smoke rising from Gaza . These are the telltale signs of rockets . Soon , Iron Dome was at work overhead , its Tamir interceptor missiles flying toward the rockets . The rocket fire beginsThis was just the opening salvo of a long series of salvos that poured missiles over our heads . It began at 1 : 27 p . m . and continued at 1 : 30 p . m ., 1 : 35 p . m . and every five or 10 minutes after that until a brief lull at 2 : 30 p . m ., before restarting around 3 p . m ., when more rockets were fired toward areas south of Tel Aviv . The rockets were intercepted by Iron Dome in dozens of interceptions . Each of these salvos and the interceptors heading toward them could be seen from areas south of Ashkelon . The rocket fire was concentrated here . Smoke filled the skies and slowly drifted away with each round of interceptions . Some rockets fell in open areas nearby , and smoke rose from the fields . IDF air defenses are seen intercepting rockets fired from Gaza into Israel , on May 10 , 2023 ( video credit : Seth J . Frantzman ) Inside Gaza , loud booms indicated that Israel was responding . The radio continued to say where the sirens were sounding and to encourage people to go to their shelters . In many areas along the roads , there are no shelters , so cars had to brave the roads south of Ashkelon with nothing more to do than keep driving . The number of salvos in broad daylight took place as they have in the past . However , standing under the missiles fired from Gaza and the Iron Dome interceptors was still jarring . There were sirens in the distance , but in some areas , there are no sirens , and therefore you can be standing outside and suddenly see small bright lights tailed by smoke rising into the area from Iron Dome interceptors heading to stop the missiles . As the afternoon continued , it appeared that Islamic Jihad began to use its longer - range rockets , firing them toward areas in the center of the country , such as Rishon Lezion , as well as other areas , such as Netivot . Border areas were spared some of the rockets , as they flew high up in the air , way above the few residents who remained near the border . Nevertheless , for many of those working industries near the border , or living in the larger towns such as Sderot , there was nowhere to go . Most of them are used to the situation . Trucks continued to go back and forth from industrial areas , and civilians continued to drive on the most essential roads . I drove over to the industrial area south of Ashkelon , where several roads stretch into the distance , toward the sea , the Rutenberg Power Station and Zikim Beach . As I drove , I could hear sirens , and the radio was saying there were rockets headed for Ashkelon . The loud screams of Iron Dome interceptors grasping upward led me to look toward the coast , where the battle overhead was taking place between Islamic Jihad rockets and Iron Dome . The interceptors did their work . I tried to get a better vantage point , but there were roadblocks . I know this area well because I & rsquo ; ve covered wars here since 2009 & rsquo ; s Operation Cast Lead . The names of the operations fade with time & ndash ; Pillar of Defense , Defensive Edge , Black Belt , Guardian of the Walls , Breaking Dawn . It has been two years since Guardian began in this same area . It was back in 2014 that Hamas tried to infiltrate terrorists near here in the dunes near Zikim . And in September 2014 , Avera Mengistu , an Israeli man , crossed into Gaza near here and is still being held by Hamas . I thought of those experiences as I drove back toward Ashkelon . The overall sense is that we & rsquo ; ve been here before . This time , the local authorities and home front were quick to encourage people to go into shelters , and children were mostly moved from smaller border communities , while adults stayed home from work in the cities . In Ashkelon , the malls were closed , for instance . Most of the streets were quiet . Most playgrounds were empty , except one that had two kids and their father on it . The rockets had peaked in the early afternoon , and then there were several more salvos through sunset , when rumors of a ceasefire seemed to encourage Islamic Jihad to fire wildly at cities far from Gaza . Israel & rsquo ; s operations against the terrorist group continue frequently , but it & rsquo ; s unclear if this has become routine & ndash ; a choreographed series of events where a ceasefire will result , but both sides know the next round is soon . The radio programs playing as I drove back to Jerusalem all seemed cynical ; it was only a matter of time until the next round of rockets and airstrikes .