A confrontation developed at the Knesset plenum between National Security Minister Itamar Ben - Gvir and Arab MKs over the far - right minister ' s support of a Border Police officer who shot and killed a 13 - year - old Palestinian at the Shuafat refugee camp after firing fireworks at Israeli forces operating in the field . Ben - Gvir shouted at Joint List MK Ahmad Tibi that " a terrorist is a terrorist ." Tibi shouted , " Every dog ​​ will have its day ." The verbal confrontation between the two developed almost into a physical confrontation until the plenum ushers had to separate the two and keep them away from each other ." To me , it ' s shocking that the police investigation department at all dared to invite the officer for questioning ; it ' s a shame and disgrace ," said Ben - Gvir . Confrontation with Baharav - MiaraIn response , Attorney - General Gali Baharav - Miara told Ben - Gvir that his visit to the offices of the police investigation department " violates the law , seriously harms the rule of law and constitutes a politicization of the law enforcement systems and a prohibited influence on them ." The minister responded to X , saying " her letters do not deter me . I will continue to back up our police officers and heroic fighters ; that is my role as the appointed minister , and that is what I will do !" The Movement for Quality Government in Israel accused Ben - Gvir of violating the rule of law in defense of Baharav - Miara . The movement called on Miara " not to be deterred by the thuggish attacks of the criminal minister Itamar Ben - Gvir " and also said that the far - right minister has also violated the independence of the law enforcement system . The movement cited Ben - Gvir ' s interference in criminal investigations or placing pressure on any parties involved and demanded that the minister cease any hostile statements against the Attorney General . They stressed that Baharav - Miara must be able to act " independently and impartially ."" In a democracy , no one is above the law . Neither are you , Mr . Ben - Gvir ," said The Movement for Quality Government in Israel , and said they would continue to fight against what they deem " any attempt to undermine the rule of law " for political interests . שלחתי כעת מכתב ליועמ " שית גלי בהרב מיארה והודעתי לה ש " מכתבי האיומים " שלה אינם מרתיעים אותי . אני אמשיך לגבות את השוטרים והלוחמים הגיבורים שלנו , זה תפקידי כשר הממונה , וזה מה שאני אעשה ! pic . twitter . com / Fn2tgj28VY & mdash ; איתמר בן גביר (@ itamarbengvir ) March 13 , 2024Ben - Gvir also said on Tuesday that he " backs the fighters who shot at a terrorist who endangered their lives ! Any terrorist who tries to harm the security forces is playing with fire !" Yaki Adamker / Walla contributed to this report .