The coalition & rsquo ; s bloc is down to 48 mandates should there be elections now , according to a poll conducted for Maariv by Lazar Research . This is against the backdrop of the northern border tensions , the continued IDF operation in Rafah , and tensions in the government on the haredi draft and rabbi bills . The opposition bloc rose to 62 mandates , without two Arab - led parties , which would allow it , should it stay united , to formulate a coalition without being dependent on the Islamic Ra & rsquo ; am Party . The poll , led by Dr . Menachem Lazar , shows the left - wing Meretz Party rising above the electoral threshold with four mandates while the Religious Zionist Party , led by led by Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich , remains below the threshold , with only 2 . 7 % support . The National Unity Party , led by former emergency government minister - without - portfolio Benny Gantz , dropped by one mandate from the previous poll and stands at 23 mandates . The poll , conducted in partnership with Panel4All , found that Likud is one step below National Unity with 22 mandates & ndash ; one more than the previous poll & ndash ; while Yesh Atid went from 15 to 16 mandates , Yisrael Beytenu stayed at a steady 14 , as did Shas with 10 . For several weeks , the far - Right Otzma Yehudit Party has been polling at nine mandates , United Torah Judaism at seven ; the Labor Party at five ; and Hadash - Ta & rsquo ; al and Ra & rsquo ; am , both at five . Who should be the next prime minister of Israel ? Of those polled , 42 % believe that Benny Gantz is the most suitable candidate for prime minister , while 35 % support Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . The remaining 23 % are still undecided . Among right - wing voters , 2 % favor Gantz , and 90 % favor Netanyahu ; among center - left voters , 84 % are for Gantz and 3 % are for Netanyahu ; and among Arab party voters , 47 % are for Gantz and 0 % are for Netanyahu . The poll was conducted on Wednesday among 510 respondents , constituting a representative sample of the adult population in Israel , Jews and Arabs alike . The maximum sampling error is 4 . 4 %.