North of the Gaza Strip , the surf is pounding the beaches south of Ashkelon . One of these beaches is known as Zikim , and it shares a name with a kibbutz on a hill above it . This is a beautiful area . There is a small pond and stream near the beach , and dunes with small stout layers of brush stretch up from the waterfront toward the east . The dunes form a kind of frame to the area , setting off the kibbutz and a road that runs down to the sea from an industrial area of Ashkelon . Today , this area is deserted . The beach , which once hosted the toned bodies of young men and women from the area who came to enjoy the spot , and the fishermen who would come on weekends to try their hand at a catch , are gone . It is all gone because Hamas attacked this beach on October 7 , when it invaded two dozen points along the border with Israel and carried out its massacre . I came to this area on October 8 , trying to reach the coastal area because there are several IDF posts here . I thought that with the war unfolding , it might be a good place to find a story . At the time , I didn & rsquo ; t know there was still fighting going on in this area , and terrorists were lurking in the bushes and dunes . I learned the area was an active combat zone when I came upon the bodies of two terrorists , and a still - running Savannah van parked next to them , on October 8 near the fence that runs around Kibbutz Zikim . The fighting here continued for days . On October 11 , several soldiers from the Maglan special unit were killed in this area . Flags with their names are now draped on a concrete shelter along the road . Inside , their comrades have written their names and left candles and a kippah in their memory . Six months laterIT HAS been six months since that day . October 8 was the second day of the war . Six months later , I was in Kibbutz Zikim , looking out onto the road where I had encountered the dead terrorists and the van . A member of the community recalled the same scene unfolding on October 7 from inside Zikim . Although terrorists were able to attack and infiltrate the IDF posts near the border , killing soldiers and massacring civilians on Zikim Beach , the kibbutz itself was saved by the quick response of its emergency response team and soldiers . Today , the kibbutz seems like it is slowly returning to life , and some of the residents have returned . The community is laid out in a large circle , with houses facing the perimeter fence , looking toward the sea . It & rsquo ; s bucolic and beautiful . It is also filled with peacocks for some reason . The birds apparently escaped from a local small zoo and have infested the community for years . Because there are so few human residents , the animals seem to have the run of the place . I spent October 7 and 8 traveling along the border with Gaza , seeing communities that faced the brunt of the attack on October 7 and also seeing those that were saved from the massacre . Each community has a story & ndash ; stories of tragedy , bravery , and sometimes good luck that kept people safe . Six months after the war began , it & rsquo ; s important to recall that these communities are still evacuated , their residents scattered around Israel . In many cases , the communities tried to stick together , but they face an uncertain future . On the afternoon of October 8 , the IDF said it had evacuated Be & rsquo ; eri , Nahal Oz , Netiv Ha & rsquo ; asara , and Zikim . While Zikim had been saved from the massacre , nearby Netiv Ha & rsquo ; asara , which is directly on the border with Gaza , was breached , and the terrorists murdered numerous members of the community . The terrorists also carried out massacres at Be & rsquo ; eri and Nahal Oz . Nahal Oz is one of the hardest community & rsquo ; s to reach today because it is close to the border , and there is an IDF checkpoint on the road leading to it . All of these communities now have soldiers at their front gates , and permission is required to enter . Nahal Oz is a unique case . To get to it , the road snakes down by the border . Several years ago , a large concrete wall was erected to shield the road from Gaza , and the wall was then painted with pastoral scenes and a giant mural indicating that the community was celebrating 70 years since its founding . Unlike Zikim , there is a sense it will take time before anyone can return to this area . On October 8 , the IDF also evacuated Nir Am , Mefalsim , Kfar Aza , Gevim , Or Haner , Ivim , Yad Mordechai , Karmiya , Kerem Shalom , Kissufim , Holit , Sufa , Nirim , Nir Oz , Ein Hashlosha , Nir Yitzhak , Magen , Re & rsquo ; im , Sa & rsquo ; ad , and Alumim . Today , these communities have the same struggles that Zikim and Nahal Oz face . Their residents are living in different parts of Israel , and it is not clear when services will be available for people to return to or if people will feel secure enough to return . In some communities , people return only for a few hours a day or several days a week . They might have jobs nearby , or they come to tend a garden or to do some kind of other work for the community . In the community dining halls , where there once would have been crowds or laughter , or plans for community events , there is often silence or only a few people huddled to eat . IT & rsquo ; S HARD to make sense of this . On the one hand , the war in Gaza feels like it is winding down . At the highest point in Zikim , for instance , there is an old home built in 1920 by an Arab notable who had a citrus grove near here . From the roof of the old stately home , where sandbags are piled , probably from the early days of the war , one can see into Gaza . Smoke rises , and there is a rat - tat of machine - gun fire . But the sound of artillery and explosions is no longer common . Further down the border , this is not always the case . Near the site of the Supernova music festival massacre , the sound of artillery is present . Everywhere along the border , the buzzing of drones is clear . But the heavy military presence of the first months of the war is gone . It & rsquo ; s not normal , because normal would mean the civilian residents have returned . It & rsquo ; s abnormal . But it & rsquo ; s also not war , because much of the war seems to have paused , like a country taking a deep breath and then wondering what to do next . What comes next at Kibbutz Sufa , for instance ? It sits near the border and feels forlorn . At nearby Nir Yitzhak , there are square hay bales stacked in small mountains in warehouses . Clearly , the agricultural work has gone on at a fever pitch . In fact , that & rsquo ; s another contrast on the border . Work goes on everywhere in the fields . In some cases , it is done by foreign workers , who can be seen riding motorized bikes to their work . Small Thailand flags flutter from the bikes . In one field , a giant machine with long metal arms , like a massive mechanical bug in some kind of future apocalyptic movie , ambled along watering the field . It wasn & rsquo ; t even clear if there was a person on the machine , bringing a sense that the future here hangs in the balance between civilians returning and machines taking over . This is not what the kibbutz pioneers of the late 1940s and 1950s had in mind when these communities were founded . They lived in tents and farmed . They took their bolt - action rifles , and later automatics , to the fields with them . They danced , and sang , and played sport . They served in elite units . They grew old . Their descendants want to return , but so far , it is mostly the older people who express steadfastness and confidence . Those with children who were abandoned for many hours on October 7 , and had to leave on October 8 , face an uncertain future . How can they return and trust the state again to protect them ? The state hasn & rsquo ; t returned the hostages held in Gaza . There & rsquo ; s also a sense the government has abandoned these communities , that there is lack of caring for them , and that there is no government here . They are fending for themselves , like in the era of the British Mandate . These communities were once the heart of the state & rsquo ; s endeavors to carve out the borders of Israel . But now they feel like they have become the ultimate periphery .& nbsp ;