World leaders are appealing for calm amid the growing violence between Palestinians and Israelis , with the most recent tensions coming to a head on Jerusalem Day . The United States , the European Union and the United Kingdom each chimed in to express their disfavor with the ongoing conflict .

The past week has seen hundreds of Palestinians , Israeli police officers and civilians injured . The tensions began with an unresolved Supreme Court dispute surrounding the evictions of four Palestinian families from the east Jerusalem neighborhood of Sheikh Jarrah , known as Shimon Hatzadik in Hebrew . 

Last week the Palestinian families living in the contested neighborhood gave a response to the court that they will not reach a compromise with the Jewish families attempting to claim the land . Following the recent escalation in violence , the Supreme Court decided to push the ruling off for up until 30 days . The dispute was supposed to be resolved on May 10 .

The ruling sparked protests across Jerusalem that soon became violent , eventually spilling over into full - scale riots at al - Aqsa Mosque , culminating in the firing of at least 300 rockets from the Gaza Strip & nbsp ; into Israel since Friday & ndash ; with seven of them aimed at Israel @@@ s capital Jerusalem & ndash ; and the IDF carrying out a wave of airstrikes targeting 130 terror targets across the Hamas - controlled coastal enclave in response .

& quot ; This is an unacceptable escalation ,& quot ; said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price . & quot ; While we urge de - escalation on all sides , we also recognize Israel @@@ s legitimate right to defend itself , to defend its people and its territory .& quot ;

With the recent uptick in violence between Israelis , Palestinians and the terrorist groups surging to levels that haven @@@ t been seen in years , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken condemned in the strongest terms the recent barrage of rockets fired into Israel from Gaza . On Monday , Blinken called for the rocket attacks from Gaza against Israel to stop & quot ; immediately ,& quot ; urging all sides to take the necessary steps to reduce tensions .

& quot ; We @@@ re very focused on the situation in Israel , [ the ] West Bank , Gaza & ndash ; very deeply concerned about the rocket attacks that we @@@ re seeing now , that they need to stop & ndash ; they need to stop immediately ,& quot ; Blinken said ahead of meeting with Jordanian Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi .

The State Department secretary expressed further concerns surrounding the violence and & quot ; provocative actions & quot ; in and around Haram al - Sharif , the hilltop compound in the Old City known as the Temple Mount to Jews and the Noble Sanctuary to Muslims , with the State Department adding that it is dedicated to ensuring calm across the region .

& quot ; The United States will remain fully engaged to promote calm in Jerusalem , and we welcome the steps the Israeli government has taken in recent days aimed at avoiding provocations , including the decision to avoid confrontations during the Jerusalem Day commemoration and the delay in the decision regarding the Sheikh Jarrah evictions .& quot ; 

For more on Hamas attacks and IDF operations & nbsp ; read here

For more on rocket attacks against Israel & nbsp ; read here



For more on Israeli strikes on Gaza & nbsp ; read here .

For more on world reactions to Gaza violence & nbsp ; read here

For more on Israeli Politician Gaza reactions & nbsp ; read here

UK FOREIGN Secretary Dominic Raab said on Monday that the United Kingdom also censures the firing of rockets .

& quot ; The UK condemns the firing of rockets at Jerusalem and locations within Israel ,& quot ; Raab said . & quot ; The ongoing violence in Jerusalem and Gaza must stop . 

& quot ; We need an immediate de - escalation on all sides , and an end to the targeting of civilian populations ,& quot ; he added .

The European Union released a statement , also in condemnation of the rocket fire , hours after its top diplomat came forward to express Europe @@@ s hopes for calm after more than 300 Palestinians were hurt in clashes with Israeli police on Monday .

& quot ; The firing of rockets from Gaza against civilian populations in Israel is totally unacceptable and feeds escalatory dynamics ,& quot ; an EU spokesperson said . & quot ; All leaders have a responsibility to act against extremists .& quot ;

EU Foreign Affairs chief Josep Borrell initially chose to focus on the Sheikh Jarrah evictions before Monday night @@@ s rocket barrage , saying that the & quot ; situation with regard to evictions of Palestinian families ... is a matter of serious concern . Such actions are illegal under international humanitarian law and only serve to fuel tensions on the ground .& quot ;

After censuring the rocket fire in its most recent statement , the EU re - directed calls at Israel to reduce tensions , adding that the & quot ; status quo of the holy sites must be fully respected ,& quot ; urging all sides to engage in de - escalatory efforts to prevent further civilian casualties .

& quot ; The significant upsurge in violence in the occupied West Bank , including in East Jerusalem as well as in and around Gaza needs to stop immediately ,& quot ; it added .

Arab League chief Ahmed Aboul Gheit said on Tuesday that the Israeli airstrikes in Gaza were & quot ; indiscriminate and irresponsible .& quot ;

He said that Israel was responsible for a & quot ; dangerous escalation & quot ; in Jerusalem , and called on the international community to act immediately to stop the violence . 

The attacks in Gaza were a & quot ; miserable show of force at the expense of children @@@ s blood ,& quot ; he added .

Arab League foreign ministers are holding a virtual meeting on Tuesday to discuss the situation in Jerusalem .


UNITED NATIONS Secretary - General Antonio Guterres shared & quot ; his deep concern over the continuing violence in occupied east Jerusalem , as well as the possible evictions of Palestinian families from their homes ,& quot ; UN spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said on Sunday .

Additionally , members of the United Nations Security Council called for further restoration of calm on Monday as the violence between Israelis and Palestinians reached new heights .

The UNSC held a closed - door session in New York on Monday to discuss the rising tensions in east Jerusalem , just before Palestinian terror groups in Gaza began launching more rockets at Israel .

Diplomats said the briefing was requested by almost two - thirds of the 15 - member council & ndash ; Tunisia , Ireland , China , Estonia , France , Norway , Niger , St . Vincent and the Grenadines , and Vietnam .

Vietnam , one of the countries who called the meeting , came in with a pre - existing agenda in condemnation of Israel , saying it expressed & ldquo ; grave concern ,& rdquo ; condemned & ldquo ; all acts of violence [ and urged ] all parties to exercise [ maximum ] restraint .& rdquo ; The Vietnam mission also called on Israel to stop settlement activity and to halt & ldquo ; forced evictions & rdquo ; of Palestinians and & ldquo ; home demolitions .& rdquo ;

After the meeting , Norway & rsquo ; s mission to the UN tweeted it was & ldquo ; critical that political , religious [ and ] other leaders do all they can to de - escalate this volatile situation .

& ldquo ; All measures aimed at altering the demographic composition , character [ and ] status of the Palestinian Territory occupied since 1967 are illegal ,& rdquo ; it added .


PALESTINIANS FIRED uninterrupted barrages of rockets into Israel on Monday , and the IDF retaliated by pounding Gaza with airstrikes through the early hours of Tuesday , in a dramatic escalation of clashes in Jerusalem .

Explosions shook buildings throughout Gaza and rocket sirens sent Israelis in many southern towns scurrying for shelter overnight . Some 24 Palestinians were killed and more than 103 wounded in airstrikes , Palestinian officials said .

Some 31 Israelis were wounded by rockets overnight , Israeli medical officials said . An extra ten were injured during Tuesday morning @@@ s rocket barrage , bringing the total to 41 .

The events were unleashed by Gaza terrorists firing on the Jerusalem area for the first time since the 2014 war , crossing what Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called a & quot ; redline .& quot ; Hamas and the smaller Islamic Jihad terrorist group claimed responsibility for the rocket fire on Jerusalem .

The upsurge in violence came as Israel celebrated Jerusalem Day , marking its capture of east Jerusalem in the 1967 Six Day War .

Monday @@@ s escalations began with confrontations at al - Aqsa , which occurred amid smaller protests and riots spread across the Jerusalem area as well as the rest of the country & ndash ; with the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood being another focal point . Over the course of the day , more than 300 Palestinians were injured in clashes with Israeli police , who fired rubber bullets , stun grenades and tear gas in the Aqsa compound . Police said 21 officers were hurt in the skirmishes .

In response to the rocket fire , the IDF said it struck targets that included terrorist operatives , attack tunnels and the home of a Hamas battalion commander .


OF THE 24 Palestinians killed on Monday , seven , including three children , were family members who died in an explosion in the town of Beit Hanoun , though it was unclear if it had been caused by an Israeli strike or a Palestinian rocket that had fallen short .

The IDF spokesperson said about a third of the Palestinian rockets fired had fallen short and caused damage and casualties inside Gaza .

International efforts to appeal for calm are also attempting to incorporate more direct channels of communication with the terrorist cells in Gaza , in hopes the talks will lead to de - escalation .

A Palestinian official told Reuters that Egypt , Qatar and the United Nations , which have mediated truces between Israel and Hamas in the past , were in contact with the group @@@ s leader Ismail Haniyeh .

Hamas allegedly warned Egyptian officials overnight that the Gaza terrorist groups will refuse negotiations for a ceasefire until Israel removes its security forces from Sheikh Jarrah and the Temple Mount , as well release all those detained in the clashes taking place across east Jerusalem and the West Bank , according to a report by the London - based Saudi newspaper Al - Araby Al - Jadeed .

The IDF expressed similar sentiments , claiming it is not interested in a  ceasefire at the moment , with the IDF spokesperson stating in  response to questions about a possible ceasefire : & quot ; Talk to the  Palestinians . I know nothing about that .& quot ; 

Tovah Lazaroff and Reuters contributed to this report .