Serial rioters were indicted on Monday for taking part in violent events throughout Jerusalem , including the Temple Mount Ramadan riots .& nbsp ; Jerusalem resident Mahmoud Shahshir had organized participation in riots with a group on the Snapchat application . He often coordinated with Imran Bukhari .& nbsp ; Shahshir and Bukhari brought Hamas flags and Lions ' Den headbands and a bag with a dozen fireworks to al - Aqsa Mosque on April 5 . The accused and hundreds of other rioters had barricaded themselves in the holy site with the goal of creating a disruption and attacking security forces . Other rioters also assembled a stockpile of fireworks , as well as stone , planks and other objects to use as weapons .& nbsp ; The men threw stones and shot fireworks at police from a close distance . The indictment noted that several police were injured during the riot , including one officer who suffered burns and damage to his hearing .& nbsp ; Previous actions of the serial riotersEarlier in the year , Sharshir had taken part in a January riot in Beit Hanina . Rioters threw trash cans , rocks , fireworks and even threw Molotov cocktails at security personnel . The suspect gave fireworks to other rioters . In October 2022 , Sharshir and others joined riots in which they pelted a bus traveling from Neve Yaakov past Beit Hanina with rocks . Later , when identifying another car with occupants that were visibly Jewish , they pelted a private car with rocks .& nbsp ; Later that night , Sharshir joined riots in Isawiya in which he threw more rocks and fireworks at police officers . The serial rioter had previously taken part in riots at the Temple Mount in April 2022 , along with Bukhari . Early that month , rioters collected weapons with the plan to throw objects at Jews and police . The two 20 - year - old men threw fireworks , causing a fire to break out in a nearby grove , requiring firefighters to arrive .& nbsp ; Sharshir faces six separate charges and Bukhari two . The indictment included the crime of rioting , assaulting police officers , assault causing injury , reckless use of fire , throwing rocks at vehicles and possession of banned substances , among others .