An angry & quot ; protest note & quot ; from Jordan has demanded that Israel stop hindering restoration work at Jerusalem @@@ s al - Aqsa mosque compound , Islam @@@ s third holiest site .

Jordanian foreign ministry spokesman Daifallah Alfayez said the note sent on Monday urged Israel to & quot ; refrain from such violations and provocations , and respect the mandate of Jordan in administering Muslim holy sites .& quot ; 

Israeli officials did not respond to requests from The Media Line for comment . 

Jordan & rsquo ; s King Abdullah II is the custodian of Muslim holy sites in east Jerusalem , an arrangement agreed upon in the 1994 peace deal between the two countries . Under the agreement , Israel recognizes Jordan @@@ s guardianship of Islamic and Christian holy sites in east Jerusalem , which was captured and annexed by Israel in 1967 .

Wakf , the Islamic endowments authority run by Jordan , this week accused the Israel Police of preventing its employees from conducting restoration work on the Dome of the Rock shrine .

Jordan insists that the Wakf is & quot ; the sole authority responsible for the supervision and maintenance of al - Aqsa .& quot ;

Jawad Anani , a former deputy prime minister and former foreign minister of Jordan , told The Media Line from Amman that Jordan @@@ s role in east Jerusalem is a redline for the king .

& quot ; The Jerusalem issue for His Majesty the King is very important . Islamic and Christian holy places in Jerusalem are under Hashemite guardianship ,& quot ; he said . 

Anani , who also served as chief of the Royal Court , and coordinator of Jordan & rsquo ; s peace negotiating team with Israel , says that Israeli domestic politics is a factor in the rising tension .

& quot ; We see this as a challenge for Jordan and His Majesty . The reason is that the current Israeli administration is seeking to gain votes , because ( Prime Minister Benjamin ) Netanyahu is in a difficult and critical situation . He tries to appease the extremists and religious people in Israel ,& quot ; he said . 

Oded Eran , a former Israeli ambassador to Jordan , concedes that the relationship between the two countries is at its lowest point .

& quot ; I think the relations are not frozen , but I would say quite cold ,& quot ; he said .

Eran , who was Israel @@@ s top diplomat in Amman from 1997 to 2000 , says that despite their problems , the two countries cooperate on some issues , including intelligence and security .

& quot ; There are contacts between the two ministries of foreign affairs , the ministers met twice in recent months , and they discussed cooperation on many issues ,& quot ; he said .

But Abdullah and Netanyahu have not spoken to each other for some time , he added , which says a lot about the state of relations between the two countries . 

He compares this to the & ldquo ; warmth & rdquo ; of the relationship between the late Jordanian King Hussein and the late Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin . 

Anani said that there is & ldquo ; no chemistry & rdquo ; between the current king and prime minister .

& quot ; The relationship has gone nowhere since Netanyahu took office . Full of challenges , there is a long list of actions that Netanyahu took that indicate his animosity ,& quot ; he said . 

Unpopular among the majority of Jordanians , the 26 - year - old peace treaty has withstood the test of time , in spite of increased tensions between Israel and Jordan in the last few years .

The rising animosity between Jordan and Israel comes at a time when Israel is normalizing relations with four Arab states .

& quot ; Jordan found itself alone in standing firmly behind the Palestinian cause , while other Arab countries are normalizing relations with Israel ,& quot ; Eran said . 

He added that these breakthrough accords should help Jordan , too .

& quot ; The addition of Arab states to the circle of normalization with Israel opens up the possibility of regional economic cooperation for which Jordan can certainly benefit in many sectors ,& quot ; he said . 

Eran says good relations with Jordan should be a top priority for Israel .

& quot ; It is a very sad comment on the current state of affairs and one can only hope that a resumption of a political process as soon as possible between Israel and the Palestinians will also bring greater cooperation between Israel and Jordan ,& quot ; he said . 

When Trump rolled out his vision for peace in the Middle East last January , he did it with little to no consultation with Abdullah . Making matters worse , there was the US position approving of Israeli plans to annex the West Bank portion of the Jordan Valley , which Amman strongly rejects , calling it a threat to its national security .

Under the Trump Administration , Jordan & rsquo ; s role in the region was marginalized . Trump bypassed the strategic relationship that the US had with the kingdom for decades , in favor of Gulf states .

& quot ; No one can exclude or circumvent Jordan & rsquo ; s role in Jerusalem . There is no contesting of the Hashemite custody of the Holy Places ,& quot ; Anani said .