The mayor of the Israeli central city of Lod , Yair Revivo , penned a letter to the government in which he expresses grave concerns about the escalating crime rate and the influence of local gangs in the city just 15 minutes from Tel Aviv . Revivo noted the lack of action to combat these gangs , both Arab and Jewish , which he said are increasingly armed and pose a significant threat not just to the city but to national security & mdash ; and a problem he has been & ldquo ; shouting about for over ten years .& rdquo ; He pointed out that Arab gangs , in particular , are amassing more weapons and could potentially target civil aircraft with shoulder rockets due to the city ' s proximity to Ben Gurion ' s airstrip . This follows reports in Israeli media that police had found a missile and launcher during a criminal investigation into one of the central city & rsquo ; s kindergartens , which Revivo noted in his letter , calling it & ldquo ; intolerable .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; The mayor & rsquo ; s letter also questioned the effectiveness of security measures such as the IDF and Shin Bet , continuing , & ldquo ; If such a missile is luckily found by the police in Lod , God forbid we are close to the shooting of an El Al plane full of 500 passengers ; a plane that will take off from Ben Gurion Airport near our city , get hijacked , hit directly , and crash .& rdquo ;& nbsp ;& ldquo ; Perhaps only such an event can make you wake up !& rdquo ; Revivo wrote . & ldquo ; Unfortunately , there is no need to wait for the drone from Iran ; everything is already here ." Amid these security concerns , the cityscape of Lod is marked by empty shops and neglected streets littered with trash , signs of a community under strain . Few people are seen outdoors , and the few who are keep a wary eye on those entering and leaving the main roads . The local economy suffers not only from a lack of domestic tourism from Palestinians coming from the West Bank due to Israeli restrictions after the war broke out but also from the absence of foreign tourists . Tensions in LodThe atmosphere in Lod is heavy with silence , broken occasionally by gunshots . The city & rsquo ; s social dynamics are further complicated by its demographic composition ; about 30 % of its population is Arab , contributing to a sense of detachment from the rest of Israel and exacerbating the city ' s challenges .& nbsp ; Near the mosque in the Arab part of the city , inside a hookah shop full of Arab customers either living or working in Lod , one of them catches attention for a tattoo of an M16 on his arm , as well as an image of a rose and a person covered with a balaclava on his hand .& nbsp ; One citizen , Muhammad , expressed his concern to The Media Line , & ldquo ; There is a lot of criminality here . Despite living in East Jerusalem , I work here and come very often after work . With the war currently going on , the situation is getting worse day by day .& rdquo ; He added : & ldquo ; The situation is not completely under the police & rsquo ; s control due to the power of many local gangs . However , I can also say that there is always a stereotype related to us as Arabs . Jews portray us as troublemakers and are racist towards us . In the case of Lod and Ramla , the problem is mostly caused by both sides , not just us . There is , in fact , criminality among Jews too .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; I just wish peace for this land and further help for mixed cities , such as Lod , in this process . We should coexist , but , so far , we mainly live separately from one another .& rdquo ; In the Jewish part of the city , the situation is the same .& nbsp ; Yossi , a Jewish citizen who has lived in the city for seventeen years , told The Media Line : & ldquo ; Aside from the security granted by the city , as Jewish citizens , we pay an extra 25 shekel per month each . It doesn & rsquo ; t matter about one & rsquo ; s salary , but this hasn & rsquo ; t brought more police or any changes .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; We need to learn to coexist ; we have no choice . It is difficult after the 7th of October to trust one another again . Sincerely , I think that Arabs live overall well in Israel , way better than other Arab countries ,& rdquo ; he said . Yossi added , " Our mayor didn & rsquo ; t do the right things here . There is no structural plan for both Jewish and Arab citizens . This exacerbated the distance between the two communities .& rdquo ; Gavi , another Jewish citizen , also acknowledged the lack of security in the city .& ldquo ; During the night , it is impossible to feel safe going out ; our major promised to everyone better conditions , but this hasn & rsquo ; t happened yet ,& rdquo ; he told The Media Line .& ldquo ; In this state of sort of anarchy , I think that Arab gangs may be capable of throwing rockets from here against planes in Ben Gurion ,& rdquo ; Gavi added . Regarding Jewish gangs , it seems that they have lost power over the years and are not as relevant as Arab ones in Lod .& nbsp ; Gavi said , " I know for sure that they do not cooperate . Maybe it was like this at the beginning . Now we see the overall control and power in the hands of the Arab ones .& rdquo ; Revivo did not respond to a request for comment from The Media Line .