The Israel Antiquities Authority ( IAA ) and the Lod Municipality discovered them by chance during excavations of a destroyed Jewish public building . Experts said they were evidence of the last Jewish revolt against Roman rule in Israel & ndash ; 1 , 650 years ago . The dramatic discovery is the first - ever evidence in Lod of the Gallus Revolt , the last Jewish resistance against Roman rule , between 351 and 354 CE . The excavation was carried out on Nordau Street in the building from the late Roman - early Byzantine period that suffered violent destruction . Presumably , the coins , dating from 221 to 354 CE , were deliberately placed there in the hopes that the owner would return to collect them when the situation calmed down . There is very little written evidence about the Gallus Revolt . However , texts indicate that the forces of Roman Caesar Flavius Constantinus Gallus destroyed major Jewish communities such as Lod , Zipori , and Tiberias . Among the various finds in the building were impressive stone and marble artifacts , along with Greek , Hebrew , and Latin inscriptions , including one bearing the name of a Jewish man from a priestly family , which is still under examination . These inscriptions , coupled with the complete absence of pig bones from the bone assemblage uncovered on the site , attest to this building & rsquo ; s association with the Jewish community .' An exciting , very emotionally moving find '& nbsp ; According to IAA site excavators Shahar Krispin and Mor Viezel , & ldquo ; In all likelihood , this is a magnificent Jewish building that housed the city & rsquo ; s elders . From Talmudic writings , we know that Lod was a most significant Jewish center in the aftermath of the Second Temple & rsquo ; s destruction in Jerusalem . Some of the renowned & lsquo ; Sages of Lod & rsquo ; are Rabbi Eliezer ben Horkanos , Rabbi Tarfon , Rabbi Akiva , Rabbi Yosi Ha & rsquo ; Galili , and many more .& ldquo ; The building , destroyed down to its very foundations , is a clear indication that the revolt was forcefully put down with violence and cruelty and was not simply a local uprising event , as some earlier studies contended . This is the singular witness , thus far , to the extent and power of this revolt in Lod , which is located in the country & rsquo ; s center .& rdquo ; IAA council head Prof . Joshua Schwartz , who studies Talmudic - period Lod , noted that & ldquo ; it & rsquo ; s hard to know if this magnificent building served as synagogue , study hall , meeting hall of the elders , or all three of these functions as one . But what is clear is that the building & rsquo ; s size , the coin hoard , and the assemblage of archaeological finds produced by the excavation fit well Lod / Diospolis & rsquo ; s description , in both Jewish and non - Jewish sources , as a center of Torah - true Jewish life in the Mishna and Talmud periods . Lod & rsquo ; s role as a leading community with elders continued from after the destruction through to this moment , when it was cruelly cut down in the Gallus Revolt .& rdquo ; IAA director Eli Escuzido concluded that & ldquo ; the impressive finds uncovered here reinforce our responsibility to investigate and to conserve Lod & rsquo ; s history and rich heritage . Along with the city & rsquo ; s new exhibition center of the beautiful Lod mosaic , we now bring this building to the awareness of the general public .& rdquo ; Lod Mayor Yair Revivo added that & ldquo ; this is an exciting and very emotionally moving find , another link in the chain of Lod & rsquo ; s Tannaitic period heritage as host to the authors of the Mishna and Lod & rsquo ; s Jewish history . The finds in the area prove that Lod is one of the oldest cities in the world . We wish to thank the IAA for revealing our city & rsquo ; s past glory . I believe that now that it is uncovered , this site will bring many tourists and visitors to the city . Lod is connecting to its past and is looking forward to a bright future .& rdquo ; The findings will be published as part of the Central Israel Region Archaeological Conference , which will be held at Tel Aviv & rsquo ; s Eretz Yisrael Museum on June 20 and jointly hosted by Tel Aviv University , Bar - Ilan University , and the ( IAA ). The event is open to the public at no charge . Details can be found on the Israel Antiquities Authority website .