Following the War Cabinet ' s decision to approve an increased fuel allowance for the Gaza Strip , both Former Prime Minister Naftali Bennett and National Security Minister Itamar Ben - Gvir have publically criticized the decision , according to Israeli media . The Prime Minister ' s Office announced on Wednesday night that it would be increasing the fuel allowed into Gaza in order to ward off an imminent humanitarian collapse as well as prevent disease outbreaks . The amount permitted to enter would be decided on a situational basis according to " the morbidity situation and humanitarian situation ." The Security Cabinet , this evening , approved the recommendation of the War Cabinet to allow a minimal supplement of fuel & ndash ; necessary to prevent a humanitarian collapse and the outbreak of epidemics & ndash ; into the southern Gaza Strip .& mdash ; Prime Minister of Israel (@ IsraeliPM ) December 6 , 2023Dissatisfaction with the War CabinetBen - Gvir was one of the dissenting votes in the War Cabinet , another was Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich . During the meeting , Ben - Gvir said " This fuel is used by Hamas . We said a few weeks ago that not a drop would enter and suddenly we changed the red line ? In order to defeat Hamas and terrorism , we must stop with the concept ." While Bennett said " Bringing fuel into Gaza during a war constitutes an injection of energy to Hamas . This is a grave error , certainly when it happens while our abductees are being held in inhumane conditions and against international law , and are not even visited by the Red Cross ."" The fuel is the oxygen - in the literal sense - of Hamas . Without it , Hamas will collapse . Hamas uses fuel for the ventilation and lighting systems in the terrorist tunnels , for the movement of armed men , and for terrorist activities against us . Those who send our soldiers to fight against a cynical enemy must know how to withstand pressures , also of friends , at such a crucial point in the war ." Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer defended the decision as " critical " citing the need for continued American support . This comes as US officials begin putting pressure on Israel to put more effort into protecting civilians in the Gaza Strip .