Palestine Olympic Committee chairman & nbsp ; Jibril Rajoub & nbsp ; has publicly encouraged Olympic athletes to boycott Israel and forfeit matches against Israelis .

Rajoub posted photos of himself with Algerian judoka & nbsp ; Fethi Nourine & nbsp ; on social media , writing that he appreciates Nourine & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; courageous stance refusing normalization .& rdquo ;

Nourine refused to face off against Israel & rsquo ; s Tohar Butbul .

& ldquo ; We worked a lot to reach the & nbsp ; Olympics ... but the Palestinian cause is greater than all of this ,& rdquo ; he told Algerian television .

The International Judo Federation suspended Nourine and his coach , Amar Benikhlef , who then lost their Algerian Olympic Committee accreditation .

Nourine & rsquo ; s stance & ldquo ; reflects the persistence of the Algerian people with Palestine and all that it has suffered from hostilities and official Israeli terrorism ,& rdquo ; Rajoub said in an interview with an Algerian radio station that he posted on his Facebook page .

& ldquo ; There is no place for meetings with whoever is connected to this official terrorism , not in sport or outside of it ,& rdquo ; he added . & ldquo ; I hope that this message goes out to all the Arabs who are normalizing & hellip ; and even those who , unfortunately , sign agreements with branches of Israeli sports , in light of the oppression and the difficulties that Palestinian players face .& rdquo ;

Rajoub repeated his lament against Arab states that cooperate with Israel in sports , emphasizing that some Israeli sports leagues have activities in the West Bank .

Rajoub is also the head of the Palestinian Football Association and campaigned to have FIFA , the international soccer association , boycott Israel .

In 2018 , FIFA fined Rajoub $ 20 , 000 and banned him from the association for inciting hatred and violence against Argentina , which had agreed to play a friendly match in Israel . Argentina canceled the game following the threats .

Rajoub & ldquo ; glorified terrorism ,& rdquo ; encouraging soccer tournaments and teams to be named after Palestinian terrorists , and compared Israelis to & ldquo ; Satan and Nazis ,& rdquo ; FIFA & rsquo ; s chief of investigations said .

Sudanese judoka Mohamed Abdalrasool also withdrew from the Olympics on Monday before his scheduled match against Butbul , without giving a reason .

Butbul said Abdalrasool had said he had a shoulder injury , but the Israeli team was not convinced , the AP reported .
Sudan and Israel established diplomatic relations last year .