The Israeli Basketball Premier League & rsquo ; s playoffs opened up this week as all four of the best - of - 5 quarterfinal series tipped - off . Maccabi Tel Aviv crushed Ness Ziona 109 - 83 to take a 1 - 0 quarterfinal series lead . Oded Katash & rsquo ; s squad wasted no time jumping out to the early lead as Lorenzo Brown , Josh Nebo and John DiBartolomeo led the attack to help the yellow - and - blue to the 26 - point victory . Game 2 is slated for Friday at Lev HaMoshava in Ness Ziona while Game 3 will be back at Yad Eliyahu on Sunday . Brown scored 18 points , DiBartolomeo added 15 points and Jake Cohen chipped in with 14 points in the win . Isaiah Whitehead scored 15 points and Rawle Alkins dropped 13 points for Ness Ziona in the loss .& ldquo ; I think overall I & rsquo ; m satisfied with the result and the way that we played ,& rdquo ; Katash said after the game . & ldquo ; In the first quarter we were focused . It & rsquo ; s the start of the playoffs and every game is important . I think the game reached a margin that could cause us to relax and be complacent . We need to stay focused . I think Ness Ziona is a better team than the result indicates .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; We came into our first playoff game and Maccabi came as they know how to for the first game ,& rdquo ; Meir Tapiro said of his Ness Ziona squad . & ldquo ; They did good work , us less so . We & rsquo ; ll look forward to the next game .& rdquo ; Nebo reflected on the game .& ldquo ; We understand that it & rsquo ; s a series and not a one off whether we win by 20 points or two points , it & rsquo ; s only one game .& rdquo ; In the capital city , Hapoel Jerusalem got by Hapoel Holon 93 - 86 in overtime to take a 1 - 0 quarterfinal series lead . Levi Randolph kept the Reds in front for the majority of the game but a furious comeback led by Justin Smith and Shachar Amir drew the Purples even at 80 - 80 at the end of the regulation , sending the contest into an extra session . From there Yovel Zoosman scored a pair of crucial buckets while Randolph did the same to give Yonatan Alon & rsquo ; s squad the hard - earned win . Randolph scored 30 points , Speedy Smith added 17 points while JaCorey Williams and Noam Dovrat each scored 10 points a piece in the win . Justin Smith led Holon with 18 points as Tahjere McCall and Shachar Amir each scored 14 points in the loss .& ldquo ; We played well but we made our lives difficult in the fourth quarter ,& rdquo ; Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Alon said . & ldquo ; I have to give credit to Holon for how they came and played that quarter and they were able to play physically . They came out much more aggressive at the start of the game and I told the guys that we had to react . I really believe in the guys and they are winners who know how to win games . That & rsquo ; s how we won the game because they are winners and that & rsquo ; s what worked .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; It was great to be in the game at the end and the matchup really began in the first few minutes when we were up by double digits ,& rdquo ; Holon coach Amit Sherf said . & ldquo ; Jerusalem has a lot of tools but Justin Smith was key for us as we battled the entire game through . This is a series and I have to see what we can do better in the next game .& rdquo ; Randolph also spoke about the overtime victory & ldquo ; We turned up the defense in overtime and we were able to get some stops , get to the free - throw line which was key down the stretch .& rdquo ; At the Drive - In Arena , Hapoel Tel Aviv eased past Hapoel Haifa 97 - 66 to snatch a 1 - 0 lead in their quarterfinal series . The hosts came out strong as John Holland scored at will to help the Reds to a 48 - 30 lead and never looked back to chalk up the win . Holland led the way for Tel Aviv with 27 points , Jaylen Hoard added 19 points and Isaiah Miles scored 13 points in the victory while Alex Hamilton and Marcus Bingham each scored 15 points for Haifa in the loss .& ldquo ; We didn & rsquo ; t start well but John Holland came in time to help us improve offensively ,& rdquo ; Hapoel Tel Aviv coach Stefanos Dedas said . & ldquo ; There is no real importance by the wide margin because every playoff game is a new contest and they each begin 0 - 0 .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; There & rsquo ; s nothing to do now , we just have to know how to put this game behind us and look ahead to the next ,& rdquo ; Haifa coach Guy Goodes said . & ldquo ; We needed more focus , more aggressiveness , those are the basics . We turned over the ball 19 times and we have to react quickly .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Everything begins with defense and it was important for us to begin the series here with a totally different playoff atmosphere ,& rdquo ; said the game & rsquo ; s MVP , Holland . & ldquo ; It feels like it & rsquo ; s been a year since we played at the Drive - In . The fans pushing us was incredible and it & rsquo ; s great to play here .& rdquo ; Also , Ironi Kiryat Ata swiped home - court advantage away from Maccabi Ramat Gan with a thrilling 95 - 94 win . Amin Stevens and James Batemon played superbly throughout the 40 minutes and they were able to quell Nuni Omot and JP Tokoto , but it was Akia Pruitt & rsquo ; s late 3 - point play that created a big enough gap late in the game to hand the visitors the surprise victory . Stevens scored 26 points , Batemon added 22 points while Ben Saraf scored 14 points in the win for Kiryat Ata . Ramat Gan & rsquo ; s Omot and Tokoto scored 17 points apiece in defeat .& ldquo ; It was a game like a playoff is meant to be , against a great and deep team ,& rdquo ; Kiryat Ata coach Sharon Avrahami said .& ldquo ; We came back from a double - digit deficit , which was our first mental test . We then controlled the game , but let them get back into it . We showed a lot of character , but we know it & rsquo ; s just the beginning of the series .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; We knew it would be a difficult game and their two central players caused damage and we will need to make a number of adjustments on Thursday ,& rdquo ; said Ramat Gan bench boss Shmulik Brenner .