& ldquo ; Major pressure & rdquo ; is being applied on outgoing Efrat Mayor Oded Revivi to join national politics , he said in an interview with The Jerusalem Post last week . The pressure is not new and has accompanied Revivi during the past five rounds of elections since 2019 , he said . But now that Revivi is on his way out of office , the door is open to upgrade to the national level , he said , adding that while there are & ldquo ; major vectors & rdquo ; pushing him in that direction , it is still too early to tell .& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s not attractive to go into national politics ,& rdquo ; Revivi said . & ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s way more frustrating . It & rsquo ; s way harder to make decisions , and most mayors want to stay mayors because they enjoyed [ the ] independence & hellip ; On the other hand , when we as mayors look about and we see how the central government is run , we have a lot of criticism , and we say that with our experience we can go and create a change there .& rdquo ; Revivi claims entering national politics " not attractive " Revivi , 55 , has served as mayor of Efrat since 2008 but lost in the recent election to Dudi Sheffler . During 2016 - 2020 , he was also the international liaison of the Council of Jewish Communities in Judea , Samaria , and the Gaza Strip , and he is an IDF lieutenant - colonel in the reserves . During his childhood , Revivi spent time in the US and UK . His wife immigrated to Israel from the UK , and his English is perfect , a rare commodity among Israeli politicians , in general , and religious ones , in particular . Not only does he speak English , but Revivi said he also knows how to & ldquo ; understand English ,& rdquo ; a skill that is lacking in the national arena . For example , Revivi , who attended former US president Donald Trump & rsquo ; s inauguration ceremony by invitation , said while his colleagues gushed with excitement over Trump & rsquo ; s support for Israel , he was more wary of the & ldquo ; America first & rdquo ; foreign policy . The significance of this concept was lost on non - English - speaking politicians , he said . Fiery statements by Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich and National Security Minister Itamar Ben - Gvir against US President Joe Biden & rsquo ; s policies indicate a lack of understanding of the importance of the US - Israel relationship , Revivi said . Biden is & ldquo ; proving to be maybe the most friendly president to the State of Israel that Israel ever had ,& rdquo ; he said . But Biden is a Democrat in an election year , and some of his policies , such as recent sanctions on several settlers , should be viewed in that light and not necessarily as an act against Israel , he added . Some ministers are acting & ldquo ; as if they are equivalent to the president of the United States ,& rdquo ; Revivi said . & ldquo ; We & rsquo ; re not talking about it between equals ,& rdquo ; he added . The sanctions imposed by Biden were a mistake , Revivi said , adding that he would think about them differently .& ldquo ; When a president of the United States says to the State of Israel , & lsquo ; I don & rsquo ; t rely on your judicial system ; I don & rsquo ; t rely on you enforcing the law ,& rsquo ; that is a problematic statement ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; We shouldn & rsquo ; t have gone into that situation .& rdquo ; Israel depends on the US for munitions , including Iron Dome missiles , and alienating the US could lead to rockets flying uninterrupted from Gaza to Tel Aviv , Revivi said . Cabinet ministers in current and past governments have also acted insensitivity toward US Jewry , he said . When ministers spoke out against the Kotel compromise to enable egalitarian prayer at an isolated segment of the Western Wall or against recognizing non - Orthodox conversion , they were not aware of the implications for US Jewry , he added . Similarly , when Israeli ministers call incessantly on Diaspora Jews to make aliyah , they are not always aware of the prices these Jews pay to do so , which often include a downgrade in living standards or salaries . At the beginning of the war against Hamas , & ldquo ; A lot of donations came from the United States , a very hard - warming hug from the Jews in the Diaspora ,& rdquo ; Revivi said . But they did not feel like Israelis had expressed their appreciation , and some felt that & ldquo ; nobody was listening to them once the money came ,& rdquo ; he said . Revivi said one of his accomplishments as mayor was that Efrat grew by 60 % during his tenure , including the eight years of the Obama administration , which viewed settlement expansion unfavorably . This required an understanding of the dynamics of Israeli - US relations and was another example of the value of leaders who have this understanding , he said . Revivi said he intends to use his ability to serve as a bridge between the US and Israel in his next endeavor , adding that he does not know whether this will be in the political arena , the Jewish relations arena , or elsewhere .& nbsp ;