As a global innovation powerhouse , Israel is actively integrating cutting - edge artificial intelligence ( AI ) technologies across all facets of society , recognizing the vital importance of these advancements .& ldquo ; AI will lead to unimaginable transformations at all levels and impact every aspect of our lives and the lives of future generations . This is the next industrial revolution ,& rdquo ; stated President Isaac Herzog . But does this avant - garde spirit extend to the creative realm , where generative art offers a captivating glimpse into the fusion of human ingenuity and machine intelligence ? On the screen , digital dreams come alive with lush vegetation , ephemeral flowers , and flowing water . This is the AI - created world of & ldquo ; Botanic Reverie & rdquo ; by Ronen Tanchum , an Israeli artist working at the forefront of technology . & ldquo ; My aim is for audiences to feel my artwork and engage with it on a deep emotional level ,& rdquo ; says Ronen . Inspired by nature , he uses generative algorithms to explore new aesthetic territories that exist on the boundary between the natural and the imagined . AI allows us to take a fresh look at familiar images , revealing unexpected facets of beauty .& ldquo ; My work pulsates with themes of synthetic nature , blooming phenomena , and digital - human synchrony , exploring the human - machine - environment relationship ,& rdquo ; Tanchum said . Contemporary artists are increasingly experimenting with generative techniques , bringing their boldest creative ideas to life . But how does this art of the future work ? Algorithms trained on vast datasets can create images , videos , and even music in response to textual prompts or visual examples . Utilizing complex mathematical models , neural networks identify patterns and generate content that aligns with user - defined parameters . Then , with additional commands , humans edit the generated image until the desired result is achieved . In this process , the artist becomes a kind of conductor , guiding the machine & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; creative & rdquo ; efforts . London - based Israeli photographer Ori Gersht demonstrates how AI can expand the expressive possibilities of traditional media in his project & ldquo ; Fields & amp ; Visions & amp ; ( Another World ).& rdquo ; When processing his own photographs , the artist invites the neural network to reinterpret and literally & ldquo ; build upon & rdquo ; the original images & ndash ; now , they balance on the edge of photography and digital painting .& ldquo ; The combination of the precise trace of the optical lens in harmony with the computerized interpretation of artificial intelligence captures a shift in our concept of reality , as these photographs are no longer a faithful depiction of the physical subject matter ,& rdquo ; comments Gersht . With this experiment , the artist transforms the very nature of photography , leading the viewer into a space of imagination . The ethical ramifications of AI artOf course , it & rsquo ; s not so straightforward . In Israel , as around the world , there is an extensive public discussion surrounding generative art . It & rsquo ; s questionable whether it can be considered genuine art if a substantial portion of the work is done by a machine rather than a human . While diversity of approaches and freedom of expression are hallmarks of Israeli art & ndash ; just as they are of its society as a whole & ndash ; a majority of Israeli artists continue to work successfully with traditional fine art materials . Guy Yanai , an Israeli painter well - established on the international art scene , told The Jerusalem Post that he does not use AI tools in his art . At the same time , he notes that every industrial revolution has a beneficial impact on the evolution of art , pushing the boundaries of creative exploration and opening up new dimensions of creativity . Experts also point out that generative art challenges the established understanding of the creative process and the very concept of an artwork .& ldquo ; I view generative art as a new method that may complement other contemporary as well as traditional practices ,& rdquo ; Irena Gordon , chief curator of The Petah Tikva Museum said . & ldquo ; While it is exciting as a starting point , in the end it is up to the artist to use it to create good and meaningful art .& rdquo ; The integration of AI into the artistic sphere raises a number of important ethical and legal questions . Who is the author of a work created by an algorithm ? How do we assess the authenticity and value of such art ? Particularly heated discussions revolve around copyright for generative content and privacy issues when algorithms process personal data . Israel & rsquo ; s recently adopted & ldquo ; Responsible Innovation & rdquo ; policy for AI regulation , aimed at finding a balance between technological progress , ethical norms , and public interests , is intended to serve as a guide for the integration of AI , including in the creative industries .& ldquo ; The revolutionary impact of AI technologies is yielding constant improvements in the quality of life for Israel & rsquo ; s citizens in countless fields . However , along with the numerous benefits , there are also many risks . We must ensure that the human remains at the center of AI development ,& rdquo ; said Innovation , Science and Technology Minister Ofir Akunis . However , it would be incorrect to claim that AI has completely and suddenly taken over art in Israel . Rather , it has complemented the extensive list of tools in the arsenal of contemporary artists . Digital art in Israel encompasses a wide range of technologies , demonstrating the openness of local artists to innovation and experimentation , from 3D modeling , VR , and AR to generative graphics , animation , and more . These media often intersect and overlap in the practice of artists , creating complex artistic statements in the language of contemporary techno - culture . This is the language in which Ruth Patir , representing Israel at this year & rsquo ; s Venice Biennale , also expresses herself . Her project & ldquo ;( M ) otherland & rdquo ; masterfully combines documentary narrative with advanced computer - generated imagery ( CGI ) technologies . In her work , the artist uses 3D animation to convey her ideas to a digital - age audience in a language most understandable to them .& ldquo ; For me , creating works that expand the vocabulary of the digital asset has become something I was really eager to fight for ,& rdquo ; Patir said , noting , & ldquo ; My practice doesn & rsquo ; t focus on technology , it is only a facade of whatever is the contemporary moment we are living .& rdquo ; Creative experiments with technology are also resonating in the local art market . Galleries and collectors , primarily of the younger generation , are showing increasing interest in new media . The first auction sales of NFT works by Israeli artists took place in 2022 at Tiroche auctions in Herzliya , with lots selling for record amounts for this segment , reaching the upper estimates . Sales of digital art on the secondary market indicate the successful integration of this genre into the commercial context . Leading cultural institutions in Israel are gradually including generative art along with other digital art in their exhibition and educational programs . However , it should be noted that these are still only tentative attempts , and truly large - scale exhibition projects exploring the theme of AI are still ahead for Israelis . It is equally crucial to discuss the challenges . Vladimir Opredelenov , a leading expert on digitalization for creative industries , warned The Jerusalem Post about the risks of falling behind technological progress : & ldquo ; Cultural institutions need to change their mindset and implement innovative solutions to avoid finding themselves in a kind of & lsquo ; blackout .& rsquo ; If they do not become part of the global digital ecosystem , they risk losing relevance and audience in the era of intelligent machines . Museums must actively study and apply AI technologies in their work & ndash ; from curating and research to collection management and visitor engagement .& rdquo ; Moreover , the integration of AI into artistic practice requires art professionals to continually improve their digital literacy and master new technological tools . To effectively leverage the capabilities of AI for creativity , analysis , curating , and audience engagement , employees of museums , galleries , and other cultural institutions need to actively develop digital competencies , and stay up - to - date with the latest technology trends . AI also opens up previously unseen opportunities , particularly in the realm of preserving historical memory and cultural heritage . Algorithms can efficiently analyze vast amounts of digitized archival data , systematize it , extract valuable information , and even aid in reconstructing lost artifacts . At Yad Vashem Museum , AI technologies are used to process millions of documents , identify Holocaust victims , and create installations that immerse visitors in the context of historical events .& ldquo ; AI is not just another technological trend , it is a fundamental shift that will affect every aspect of our lives ,& rdquo ; Leading world expert in AI and co - founder of Navan Ilan Twig said .& ldquo ; This technology has already firmly entered our lives and will only develop further . It is important for the art community to embrace these changes and learn to harness the potential of AI in the most productive way .& rdquo ;