Cruelty , suspicion , and complete indifference to the suffering of his family and his people & mdash ; these are some of the qualities that are revealed when reading the testimony of Yahya Sinwar , the leader of Hamas in Gaza , from his days as a young and particularly dangerous operative in the ranks of the terrorist organization . The qualities cited here were referenced by Sinwar during a recently revealed police interrogation in 1989 . His quotes give a glimpse into the dark personality of the master terrorist , who did not hesitate to harm his people or anyone he considered to be an apostate from the religion of Islam or a collaborator with Israel . A chilling illustration of this can be found in the testimony concerning the murder committed by Sinwar & mdash ; of a collaborator with Israel named Rami Salim ." I strangled him with a kaffiyeh " In order to get the " authorization " to kill Salim , Sinwar turned to the leader of Hamas , Sheikh Ahmed Yassin . Salim was subjected to a violent interrogation at the hands of Sinwar , and confessed to having ties with the Israeli security forces as well as violating religious principles . In his investigation , Sinwar described Salim ' s execution : " On the way I blindfolded him with a rag , so that he wouldn ' t see where we were going . At the cemetery I put Rasmi into the big grave ... and there I strangled Rasmi with a kaffiyeh I had . Then I suffocated him , wrapped him in a white cloth , in a shroud , and then I went out and closed the grave ." The same was true of another person , named Adnan Azfur , whom Sinwar also suspected of having connections with Israel ." We interrogated Adnan , beat him and talked to him , and then he admitted that he was connected with the Israeli intelligence ... then we decided to kill him ... and there I strangled Adnan by force , and I ... dug in the place , and we buried him there , and we each went to our homes ." In his statement to the police , Sinwar described how the information reached him : " We received information about one Fathi Issa , from the al - Birij refugee camp , who was cooperating with the authorities ." Sinwar followed him , kidnapped him , and brought him to an orchard for an ' interrogation '. ' I stayed with Fakhri and started questioning him . I grabbed his throat with one hand and started choking him , and with the other hand I punched him in the stomach , then suddenly he had a heart attack and died ," Sinwar told his investigators . Another person who did not escape Sinwar ' s clutches was a man named Hossein al - Sir Mahan Yun . This is how Sinwar described his exploits to the police : " While they were threatening Hossein al - Sir , as he started to get out of the car and started to resist , I pressed the gun to his neck so that he would get into our car . Then a bullet was fired from my gun and hit him ." Sinwar tested bombs & mdash ; on Al - Shifa HospitalAnother example of the indifference of the Hamas leader in Gaza to the lives of his people can be found in the following story : In 1987 , Sinwar wanted to experiment with dropping explosive charges . Of all places , he chose Shifa Hospital in Gaza City as a dummy target , which has since become a symbol of Hamas ' s cynicism and the willingness of it and its leaders & mdash ; who according to reports are or at least were hiding under the hospital & mdash ; to use the civilian population as a human shield . The explosive device did explode . The quotes that appear here are taken from a High Court decision that rejected the request of Sinwar ' s father , Ibrahim Hassan Sinwar , that his house not be destroyed due to his son ' s criminal acts . The retired president of the Supreme Court , Meir Shamgar , rejected the petition with the following prophetic words :" The severity of Yahya ' s actions , described above , who strangled to death , with his own hands , people suspected of cooperating with the authorities , is the background to the decision of the respondent , who considered and believed that in this case the adoption of punitive measures is required . There is no reason to deny the reasonableness of this step ." Indeed , the members of Yahya ' s family are also now suffering because of his actions ," Shamgar wrote , " but this is indeed , more than once , the side effect of any punishment ( such as imprisonment or even a fine ), which is indeed imposed on the accused , but which hurts & mdash ; no less and sometimes even more & mdash ; those who depend on him . This alone cannot be used to negate the justification of an act of deterrent punishment , which appears to the respondent to be essential in order to fulfill his duties and responsibilities . The petition is dismissed ."