Since the outbreak of war between Ukraine and Russia on February 24 , 2022 , a staggering 83 , 198 Olim from Russia have sought refuge in Israel , as reported by the Ministry of Aliyah and Integration . According to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics , this influx is part of a broader pattern that has seen approximately 1 . 3 million Russian speakers settle in Israel , making up 15 % of the nation ' s population & mdash ; a demographic that includes those from other post - Soviet states . However , the transition to Israeli life has not been seamless for many . Struggling with cultural and religious assimilation , these newcomers often experience profound isolation and loneliness . As their adjustment hurdles persist well into their second year , the urgency to address their integration challenges becomes increasingly apparent . For more stories from The Media Line , go to themedialine . org . To gain insights into their situation , The Media Line recently spoke to Rabbi Binyamin Minich , a Russian " war aliyah " expert from the Daniel community in Jaffa who frequently interacts with new Israeli citizens from the post - Soviet regions ." Surely , repatriates from the post - Soviet space encounter difficulties integrating into Israel . Although everyone has ' returned home ,' the immigrant crisis remains . People find it difficult from a financial point of view . First and foremost , everyone wants to eat , not to pray . Then comes the crisis of culture and language ," admits Rabbi Minich ." It ' s impossible to be fully Israeli without being born here . And therefore , the crisis will always exist ," he adds . The rabbi calls the current weakness in integrating Russian repatriates a failure of the multicultural approach . " People think that because there is a huge Russian - speaking diaspora here , they can settle without much effort . This is not the case . Despite Israel ' s liberalism , there are cultural and religious codes here , even among the most secular citizens ," notes Minich . Challenges Russian immigrants face in IsraelDasha Shkolnikova , a 28 - year - old Russian immigrant , speaks about the difficulties many face while integrating into Israeli society ." A fundamental mistake that many make is closing themselves off . Israel is not the right kind of country for that . You have to go out and socialize ; everything here is designed for you always to be outside . Nobody stays at home , and that ' s the culture ," says Shkolnikova ." Many people from Russia left involuntarily , and in their minds , it ' s ' I fled .' They only communicate with Russians ,& rdquo ; she adds , & ldquo ; and it turns into a real Bat Yam ( an Israeli city popular among Russians ), almost a ghetto .& rdquo ; Journalist Ilya Egorov echoes that experience . " I literally fled to Israel with just one suitcase because I was on a business trip . Then I somehow managed to get the documents transferred and repatriated ."& nbsp ;" I rented some apartment and just closed myself off on the balcony every day , opened Zoom , and communicated with my colleagues and friends who remained in Russia . Honestly , apart from one business trip , I haven ' t even been to Jerusalem ," admits Egorov . In addition , many immigrants from the post - Soviet space feel nostalgic for their country of origin . Russians may feel their identity and culture are being threatened ." There ' s a huge layer of Russian shops and events here ,& rdquo ; says Shkolnikova . & ldquo ; You can find basically everything . But many things feel unfamiliar here because it ' s the East . For example , everyone here is very tactile , and for someone from the post - Soviet space , this is very unusual ."" I feel that this life & mdash ; as if it ' s not mine , and mine stayed in Russia ,& rdquo ; Egorov adds . & ldquo ; I can beat my chest and shout , I ' m Jewish , I ' m Israeli , but I ' m only Israeli because I have a passport ." At the same time , he wants to learn the language and feel like an Israeli . Egorov admires the Israeli mentality and the resilience of people in the face of difficulties and war . " Nowadays , I keenly feel antisemitism in the world , and I believe I have the right to say that it directly affects me too ," he says . Rabbi Minich explains that the Jewish self - awareness of many repatriates changes after moving to Israel , which makes their integration harder ." Perhaps in the country of origin , they felt like Jews , and no one objected to that , but in Israel , they are reminded that they are not by matrilineal descent , and therefore - ' not truly Jewish ,'" says Minich . His words are confirmed by Polina Altzitser , a 25 - year - old language teacher who was repatriated to Israel from Russia in April 2022 due to the start of the war in Ukraine ." Although I have Jewish roots , no one in my family supported Jewish traditions at all , unfortunately . We didn ' t talk about it . I always knew my grandfather was Jewish , but we never emphasized that ," she explains ." I see strong discrimination here against those who aren ' t Jews , according to halacha ( Biblical law in Judaism ). It greatly upsets and angers me . I don ' t understand what the problem is . Why , for example , can ' t you get married without some certificate stating that your mother is Jewish ? I faced this when I started dating my boyfriend , and it ' s been difficult for me ," confesses Polina ." It ' s a secular but , at the same time , very religious country . When it comes to family , traditions , and everything else , I clearly feel a lack of knowledge because my family is not entirely Jewish ,& rdquo ; says Shkolnikova .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; You must get used to the traditions and understand them ,& rdquo ; she adds thoughtfully . & ldquo ; Living in a different world , you cannot cut yourself off from it and continue to live as if you were in Russia . Why are you here if you do so ?" Rabbi Minich shares that besides being liberal , his community is also multilingual and multipolitical , where not only Jews of matrilineal descent but also children , grandchildren , and spouses of Jews are welcomed ." I believe less in the concept of Russian - speaking synagogues because , ultimately , I think it ' s impossible to avoid the side effect of ghettoization . Therefore , my community is completely Israeli ; they speak six different languages ," Minich shares . Repatriates also emphasize the importance of language ." I immediately enrolled in ulpan ( Hebrew language school ); I just knew it was necessary . Language is the DNA of a people and culture . If you don ' t have the language , assimilating will be much harder for you ," says Shkolnikova . Ulpan is a big step but not always a complete solution . " Ninety percent of my surroundings remain Russian - speaking ,& rdquo ; says Alzitser . That ' s why Hebrew is so difficult for me . The problem is that I still can ' t fully accept that I need the language . I can ' t say I ' ve completely abandoned my past and understanding of myself as Russian .& rdquo ; Minich believes that despite all the difficulties , those repatriates who stay in Israel will significantly contribute to the development of Israeli society ." Israel is a complex country , and living here isn ' t easy . Those who are comfortable in Israel ultimately dedicate themselves to the country and make it better ," he says ." Immigration is always challenging . And the least we can do for those who have just arrived is to help them feel at home ," Minich concludes .