An 80 - year - old Palestinian - American who died in IDF custody two weeks ago most likely suffered a heart attack caused by the stress he experienced during his detainment , Jiljilya Mayor Fuad Qattum said Sunday .
Palestinian officials and relatives said the body of Omar Abdalmajeed As & rsquo ; ad was found in the Palestinian town of Jiljilya , near Ramallah , in the early hours of January 12 with a plastic zip tie around one wrist .
The Biden administration has sought & ldquo ; clarification & rdquo ; from Israel about As & rsquo ; ad & rsquo ; s death , US State Department spokesman Ned Price said last week .
& ldquo ; We are still waiting for the autopsy report ,& rdquo ; Qattum said . & ldquo ; Today I talked to the prosecutor , and he told me that it takes time to prepare such reports . It & rsquo ; s likely he died from a heart attack as a result of the stress he was in . But we want to wait for the official report to see what caused the death .& rdquo ;
As & rsquo ; ad was detained while soldiers carried out an overnight operation in the village , the IDF said . He was alive when the soldiers released him , and the Military Police has opened a probe into the matter , it added .

& ldquo ; The Military Police Criminal Investigation Division is reviewing the incident , at the end of which the findings will be transferred to the Military General Advocate Corps ,& rdquo ; the IDF said in a statement at the time .
The Military Police has launched an investigation into the incident , but it is unlikely that charges will be brought against the soldiers and officers who participated in the operation , Ynet reported Sunday . The soldiers were from the Netzah Yehuda Battalion , which is part of the Kfir Brigade .
Three soldiers and two officers were questioned by police under warning , the report said . The soldiers said they had detained As & rsquo ; ad since he was driving in a car that appeared suspicious , and they wanted to rule out that he was carrying arms . They detained As & rsquo ; ad and moved him to a nearby abandoned home to be questioned .
As & rsquo ; ad resisted and claimed he was not a terrorist , Ynet reported . The soldiers allegedly then forcefully moved him into the abandoned home , tied his hands and covered his mouth . He then appeared & ldquo ; woozy ,& rdquo ; according to the soldiers , and they believed he had fallen asleep . They did not call for medical assistance and eventually left the home after untying As & rsquo ; ad , the report said .
As & rsquo ; ad was a former Milwaukee , Wisconsin , resident who had lived in the United States for decades and returned to the West Bank 10 years ago , according to his brother .
As & rsquo ; ad & rsquo ; s family delayed the funeral until Thursday to allow a postmortem . Islam Abu Zaher , a local doctor who said he had tried to resuscitate As & rsquo ; ad but found no pulse , said there were no obvious signs of injury and that the cause of death was unclear .