As the conditions of the IDF troops seriously wounded in the anti - Hamas operation in the West Bank continue to improve , a senior IDF medical officer said that the two men might not have survived if not for the quick thinking of the paramedic who treated them .
& ldquo ; They got the most advanced medical treatment in the world ,& rdquo ; the senior officer said . & ldquo ; Those two men , anywhere else in the world , would have likely died before getting to the hospital . The chances of getting to the hospital alive were really small .& rdquo ;
Rambam Health Care Campus in Haifa , where the two men are being treated , announced Monday that their conditions were improving . One of them regained consciousness and is expected to be removed from a ventilator , and has communicated with his family . The other is scheduled to undergo a lengthy operation for his wounds .
The two troops , a platoon commander and his soldier , were seriously injured during a firefight in the West Bank village of Burkin when they engaged armed Palestinian terrorists . The IDF & rsquo ; s preliminary investigation is looking into the circumstances surrounding their injuries but is leaning towards the possibility that they were injured by friendly fire .

One of the men was shot in the chest and lost one of his lungs while the other man was shot in the jaw and stomach . The two are also suffering from shrapnel wounds .
& ldquo ; They were very seriously injured ... and from the moment they were shot , the 18 - year - old EMT - P went straight to treat them . The time we have to get to an injured person and give them medical treatment is seconds ,& rdquo ; the officer said , adding that while & ldquo ; most armies around the world have their paramedics in the back , in the IDF they are in the front .& rdquo ;
According to the officer , Sgt . T controlled the hemorrhaging of the soldiers to stop their bleeding , performed a chest drainage , and intubated one of the men . The paramedic also did three additional things that saved the lives of the troops : he provided freeze - dried plasma , gave them TXA and actively decided only to intubate one of them .
The powdered , freeze - dried plasma given to the troops helped to clot their blood and prevented the badly wounded men from bleeding to death on the battlefield . TXA ( tranexamic acid ) meanwhile helps to stabilize the patient by coagulating the blood . Both were carried in the vest of the paramedic .
Then he chose to go outside the protocol and not to do something .
& ldquo ; Our reflex is to go to someone who is severely injured and intubate them . But , what we & rsquo ; ve found over the last decade is that such a decision is not always best . If you have a bleeding problem then intubation might help , but if you are bleeding and have low blood pressure it can actually harm the patient ,& rdquo ; the senior officer said .
& ldquo ; We & rsquo ; ve found that with specific types of casualties , intubation actually hastens their deaths because you put pressure on the lungs and heart and reduce their already low blood pressure even more .& rdquo ;
Had Sgt . T intubated the second man who had been shot in the lungs , & ldquo ; he might not have made it to the hospital .& rdquo ;
It was a & ldquo ; very challenging scenario & rdquo ; and the paramedic & ldquo ; did a really great job under fire ,& rdquo ; the senior medical officer said . & ldquo ; We all do our best to save our troops . There & rsquo ; s no technology in the world that we don & rsquo ; t use . We are very aggressive in adopting new technology and even admitting when we are wrong . We keep on changing , all the time .& rdquo ;
According to the officer , it took approximately an hour from the time the two were injured until they reached Rambam in Haifa . They were evacuated by helicopter and given several whole blood transfusions while en route . When they reached the hospital , their Ph level was so severe that their lives were at risk .
& ldquo ; Just imagine what their state could have been had they not received all the treatment that they did in the field .& rdquo ;
& nbsp ; IDF Chief of Staff Lt .- Gen . Aviv Kohavi visited the two injured soldiers on Monday and told their families that the two are & ldquo ; warriors & rdquo ; who showed & ldquo ; great courage & rdquo ; during the operation .
& ldquo ; It is important for you to know that if we had not stopped this network , of the Hamas terrorist organization , they would have been at an advanced stage and would have carried out attacks in Israeli cities ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; Your sons prevented these attacks .& rdquo ;