Interior Minister Moshe Arbel of Shas is unlike many other Israeli politicians . For one thing , he doesn & rsquo ; t particularly want to be a politician , and doesn & rsquo ; t have higher political aspirations . If it were up to him , he would be far from the public eye , working on his doctorate in law or spending time with his family . For another , at the outbreak of the Israel - Hamas war on October 7 , Arbel requested of party leader MK Arye Deri to relieve him of the dual duties of interior minister and health minister and leave him just with the former , due to the immense workload of running these two major ministries during wartime . Power and influence are currency for politicians , and who else in Israel & rsquo ; s political scene today volunteers to give up a major ministry ?& ldquo ; I see myself in the political arena as a reservist and not a career officer ,& rdquo ; Arbel said . His use of military jargon is also rare for a haredi politician & ndash ; indeed , Arbel served in the IDF and in the reserves for years until he became a member of Knesset . He said he is & ldquo ; not motivated by survivability ,& rdquo ; and that it does not matter to him whether he serves another term in politics or not . As a result , he is focused not on reaping short - term achievements but & ldquo ; preparing the ministry & rsquo ; s foundations & rdquo ; so that , when he & ldquo ; hands the keys over & rdquo ; to his successor , the ministry will be better than it is now . & ldquo ; The State of Israel needs people who enter public roles with modesty and with the understanding that they have not conquered territory but are there to serve the public ,& rdquo ; he said . Moshe Arbel ' s political , rabbinic , and IDF careerARBEL , 40 , is a father of four and lives in Petah Tikva . Public service runs in the family , as his father served on the Petah Tikva Religious Council and was a Shas activist . But Arbel himself was a full - time Torah student until his mid - twenties , and was ordained as a rabbi . He then joined the IDF Home Front Command in a unit responsible for identifying corpses ; earned bachelor & rsquo ; s and master & rsquo ; s degrees in law from the Ono Academic College ; served in the IDF reserves as a military prosecutor ; earned a business administration certificate from Harvard University ; and began a doctorate in law at Reichman University . Following the 2013 national election , Arbel served as a legal adviser for Shas , as a legislation adviser to then Knesset member and current Labor Minister Yoav Ben - Tzur , and as a chief of staff for Deri . In April 2023 he was appointed as both health minister and interior minister , after Deri was blocked from the positions due to previous criminal convictions . The Jerusalem Post interviewed Arbel in his Knesset office on April 8 , and the first issue to be discussed was the ongoing crisis over the haredi exemption from IDF service . As both a longtime haredi yeshiva student and a long - serving IDF reservist , Arbel & rsquo ; s perspective is important . His approach can be summarized as follows : The IDF has a real need for soldiers , and haredi men who do not study Torah full - time should commit to IDF or other national service . At the same time , Torah study isn & rsquo ; t just a spiritual vocation but an enterprise of national importance . Arbel called this & ldquo ; the national story of a group of Torah students ... who labor day and night over the Torah ,& rdquo ; out of which will grow & ldquo ; great Torah [ scholars ] with broad shoulders .& rdquo ; According to Arbel , these & ldquo ; broad - shouldered & rdquo ; talents are necessary in order to uphold the tradition of & ldquo ; the power of leniency ,& rdquo ; a leading policy in the halachic rulings of former Sephardi chief rabbi and Shas spiritual leader Rabbi Ovadia Yosef .& ldquo ; The day where we enter the debate with the deep understanding that there is a national , ethical duty to maintain these Torah students , along with the duty to maintain an economic , military , and socially prosperous state , we can create an ecosystem of understanding that does not wish to erase the identity of the other side ,& rdquo ; Arbel said . This fundamental premise is more important than the details of a specific haredi conscription plan , he added . Furthermore , Arbel argued that enabling haredi men to serve in the IDF while maintaining their lifestyle is a liberal value as well & ndash ; IDF service isn & rsquo ; t just a duty , it is also a right . The IDF currently does this & ldquo ; sufficiently & rdquo ; and should continue doing so , he said . He stressed that yeshiva students who were not actually studying and who were & ldquo ; catching a ride & rdquo ; on the blanket exemption should serve in the IDF like all other citizens . Arbel & rsquo ; s approach regarding Torah study and IDF service reflects a broader view on haredi education in general . He explained that the major haredi school systems teach a core secular curriculum of some form , but that this needs to be expanded and improved . His son , for example , studied at a haredi high school yeshiva , which combined long hours of Torah study with full matriculation exams . There are many such initiatives sprouting up , and & ldquo ; good things are happening & rdquo ; & ndash ; but the state needs to facilitate this & ndash ; for example , by lowering the high costs of the institutions that offer these sorts of combinations . Arbel didn & rsquo ; t rule out giving haredi teens the option of studying Torah full - time . He himself studied only Torah in his teens and completed matriculation requirements later on , and the years of Torah study granted him a work ethic and analytic skills that served him later on in life . But such a system is not appropriate for everyone and should not be forced on haredi teens who aren & rsquo ; t equipped for it , he argued . ARBEL & rsquo ; S WORK in the Interior Ministry has garnered praise from both sides of the political divide , and the ministry was favorably mentioned for its work following the October 7 Hamas massacre . Asked about this , Arbel was quick to give credit to the ministry workers . He explained that the ministry includes three branches and described its adaptations post - October 7 in each branch . These changes led to a learning process that led to broader initiatives not just related to war . The three branches are the local authorities ; immigration and citizenship ; and urban planning and development . Following October 7 , the local authorities required receiving special powers and funding , especially those whose residents were attacked and / or evacuated . On the issue of immigration and citizenship , many of these evacuees left their homes without their passports or other identification papers , and the ministry created roaming emergency offices that went to hotels in order to provide services for the evacuees . Finally , on the issue of urban planning and development , Arbel had the ministry pass temporary executive orders to cut bureaucracy in order to speedily construct new schools and medical centers for the evacuees . In the days and weeks after the massacre , some of the survivors were traumatized to the extent that they were not willing to leave their hotel rooms in order to meet with the roaming immigration offices . This led Arbel to wonder why they could not order new documents online , and he worked with the defense and other authorities to begin providing this service , whose pilot is set to begin at the end of April . Wait times in Israel for immigration services such as renewing a passport are notoriously long , and the ability to order a new passport online could drastically improve this . The idea to enable online documentation orders was an example of how the ministry & rsquo ; s ad hoc adaptation to war needs led to broader initiatives , Arbel explained . He said he also puts a specific emphasis on services to Arab municipalities .& ldquo ; On the day I entered office I said that we must understand that we are public servants of all of the citizens of Israel & ndash ; those who voted for us and those who didn & rsquo ; t , even those who are acting against us ,& rdquo ; Arbel said . He added that at a certain point when there were protesters outside of his home , he said to his children that he is happy to live in a country in which people can protest outside the homes of elected officials , which is not to be taken for granted . Dealing with Arab municipalities includes unique challenges & ndash ; a major one , for example , was Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich refusing in 2023 to channel NIS 200 million of funding due to the concern that it could end up in the hands of criminal organizations . Arbel confronted Smotrich and succeeded in getting the funds through . In some rare cases , there were also management problems , such as certain families who won the municipal election refusing to provide services to other families . Arbel added that & ldquo ; good things & rdquo ; are happening in Arab local authorities , citing as an example the town Jatt near Haifa , which elected in the recent municipal election a young engineer who is unaffiliated with large families . This shows that residents understand the importance of proper governance aimed first and foremost at improving their daily lives . Arbel views local authorities as key factors in bridging social gaps . & ldquo ; The goal of local authorities is to break through cement ceilings ,& rdquo ; he said . Socioeconomic gaps in Israel are unacceptably high for a country the size of a district in California , and correct investment by municipalities , such as in fundamental aspects of formal and informal education & ndash ; schoolrooms , teachers , hot meals , etc . & ndash ; could serve as the basis for real social mobility , which Arbel said is & ldquo ; one of the most significant tools in our national resilience .& rdquo ; The war between Russia and Ukraine and the rise in antisemitism worldwide since October 7 has led to increased interest by Diaspora Jews in moving to Israel . Another notable initiative that Arbel mentioned was creating an & ldquo ; aliyah eligibility document .& rdquo ; What happens , Arbel explained , is that potential olim sometimes express interest in moving to Israel but do not follow through with the process , such that if they want to renew it later on they will have to start afresh . Instead , Arbel proposed enabling these families to complete all of the necessary paperwork without actually making the move & ndash ; and thus enabling them to make aliyah immediately in the future if they wish . Arbel preferred not to express his views on the situation in Gaza and the public debate about how much Israel should concede in a hostage deal . But perhaps more important than his work in the Interior Ministry and his support of haredi enlistment is his sympathy for the families of the hostages . He said he is concerned by criticism that ministers had not met enough with the families of hostages since the war broke out , and said that he meets at least once a week with a family . The meetings are difficult , and the families are experiencing immense pain and anger , but as a government minister Arbel said he does not have the right to avoid the families . He added that he & ldquo ; allows himself to cry with the families ,& rdquo ; and that his moral duty is & ldquo ; first and foremost to see their pain .& rdquo ;& nbsp ;