& nbsp ; Portugal would relocate its embassy to Jerusalem only when the city is the capital of both the State of Israel and the state of Palestine , Portuguese Foreign Minister Santos Silva told The Jerusalem Post during his two - day visit .

His country has no plans to follow the United States on this issue , he said as he sat on the veranda of Jerusalem @@@ s King David Hotel , located in the western part of the city .

Portugal would contemplate such a move he said , only on & quot ; the day when I can put the two embassies in Jerusalem , the embassy of Portugal in Israel and the embassy of Portugal in Palestine .& quot ;

When asked if he considered that the location where he sat was part of Israel , he said , & quot ; I think it is a matter of fact .& quot ;

But when it came to the question of whether he considered Jerusalem to be Israel @@@ s capital , he said carefully , & quot ; You know the Portuguese Embassy is in Tel Aviv .& quot ;

Silva arrived in Israel late Sunday night , on the sidelines of a much more publicized visit by US White House senior adviser Jared Kushner on Monday , followed by a departure Tuesday of a joint Israeli - US delegation to Morocco to sign the initial documents with regard to the normalization of ties between Jerusalem and Rabat .

Silva braved the COVID - 19 pandemic to travel visit Israel and the Palestinian territories just days before the Christmas holiday , as part of his preparatory work in advance of his country @@@ s January ascendancy to the presidency of Council of the European Union . It @@@ s a rotating half year position , which his country will take over from Germany . 

Germany used that position to attempt to sooth over tensions between the EU and Israel on two major issues ; the Israeli - Palestinian conflict and Iran . It invited Foreign Minister Gabi Ashkenazi to a meeting of his EU counterparts and spoke of reconvening the EU - Israel Association Council , which last met in 2012 .

Silva in Jerusalem spoke of the need for warm Israel - EU ties and of the importance of an EU - Israel Association Council meeting . He noted the points of disagreement with Israel but said that he wanted to address issues from a place of dialogue .

In a manner similar to the Germans , he said that Israel @@@ s pledge to suspend the annexation of West Bank settlements in exchange for normalization deals with the Untied Arab Emirates and Bahrain had opened the door for improved Israel - EU relations as well . 

& quot ; It was important that the normalization process meant suspension of the annexation plans ,& quot ; Silva said when he spoke with the Post on Monday night .

& quot ; It allowed us to see future conversation and cooperation with Israel in a much more positive way ,& quot ; Silva said .

He warned that should Israel backtrack on that pledge , the potential of improved Israel - EU ties would be harmed .

& quot ; It would be a huge problem for us . It would be an obstacle for deepening the cooperation between the two entities ,& quot ; he said .

It was explained to him , Silva said , that & quot ; normalization was the opposite of annexation .& quot ; 

Silva spoke positively of the US - brokered Abraham Accords under whose rubric Israeli - Arab deals have been reached . Silva said the Accords breathed life new life into the region and the frozen peace process with the Palestinians . The entry of US President - elect Joe Biden to the White House would also open new possibilities in that sphere , he said .

& quot ; We have to look carefully at the recent changes in the region , and then we have to create conditions for the relaunch of direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians ,& quot ; he said . 

& quot ; Palestinians and Israelis & quot ; need this , Silva said , adding that the EU wants to help facilitate this process .

It was a message that he carried with him when he went to Ramallah on Tuesday before flying back to Portugal in the late afternoon .

Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Muhammed Shtayyeh and PA Foreign Minister Riyad Malki both asked that Portugal unilaterally recognize Palestinian statehood . It @@@ s a request that Portugal has rebuffed because it believes that such a step should only be taken by consensus with the entire European Union , and at present the bloc is divided on the issue .

The Portuguese parliament has called on its government to recognize Palestinian statehood ; But to date the EU and the Portuguese government hold that Palestinian statehood recognition could only come upon completion of a final status agreement for a two - state resolution to the conflict .

But Portugal and the EU agree with the PA that the contours of a two - state solution should be based on the pre - 1967 lines with east Jerusalem as the Palestinian capital .

Both Portugal and the EU oppose Israeli settlement activity . 

Silva spoke with Post about this disagreement , explaining that his country and the EU oppose all settlement activity and the Israeli practice of demolishing illegal Palestinian structures .

& quot ; We have to pursue our Israeli friends not to pursue the demolitions ,& quot ; Silva said , adding that he was particularly concerned by Israel @@@ s demolition of EU - funded structures for Palestinians . The EU @@@ s decision to pursue such building without permits , which are difficult to obtain , has been a point of contention between the EU and Israel .

He noted that despite the disagreements with Israel , he held the relations between the two countries to be very important , both because of the historic ties , and because of the contemporary ties and similar characteristic .

& quot ; We are close countries ,& quot ; he said .