On March 22 , Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich announced that Israel would be taking control of 10 km . of land previously not under its authority in the West Bank & ndash ; the disputed territory the world calls the & ldquo ; West Bank .& rdquo ; Smotrich announced , & ldquo ; While there are those in Israel and the world who seek to undermine our right over the the West Bank area and the country in general , we are promoting settlement through hard work and in a strategic manner all over the country .& rdquo ; This announcement largely escaped mainstream and even Israeli media but was highlighted by Arab media outlets around the world . As The Washington Post reported , & ldquo ; If Israel confiscates land around Jerusalem , all the way to the Dead Sea , there will be no future for a Palestinian capital in east Jerusalem ,& rdquo ; said Hamza Zubiedat , a land rights activist for the Ramallah - based Ma & rsquo ; an Development Center . & ldquo ; This is where a Palestinian capital was supposed to be located , according to the American and European talks .& rdquo ; While Zubiedat & rsquo ; s reaction wasn & rsquo ; t factually accurate , it speaks to the Palestinian objection to Israeli expansion in the West Bank . The American government strongly objects to Israeli building in the West Bank . American long - held policy was not to state an opinion on the legality of Israeli settlements in the West Bank . Former president Donald Trump changed American policy , maintaining that settlements weren & rsquo ; t inconsistent with international law . Current US Secretary of State Antony Blinken reversed American policy and declared that Israeli settlements are inconsistent with international law . Secretary Blinken recently said , & ldquo ; Our administration maintains a firm opposition to settlement expansion , and in our judgment , this only weakens & ndash ; and doesn & rsquo ; t strengthen & ndash ; Israel & rsquo ; s security .& rdquo ; Settlement legitimacyThe Israeli government maintains that settlement building is legal and encouraged . Israeli prime ministers from the Left , including David Ben - Gurion and Yitzhak Rabin , to the Right , including Menachem Begin and Benjamin Netanyahu , considered the West Bank historic Jewish land . It is as much part of the land of Israel as Tel Aviv and Netanya & ndash ; if not even more . the West Bank are considered the heartland of historic Israel . Israel & rsquo ; s long history on the land , its intrinsic connection to the region , and the absurdity of claiming that Jews are prohibited to live somewhere simply because they & rsquo ; re Jews , lends legitimacy to Israeli expansion of settlements . No excuse nor justification needs to be given for Israeli settlements , just as none is given in response to Arabs who claim Jews can & rsquo ; t live in Jaffa or Tel Aviv . The US government and the European Union ( EU ) see a larger issue in rebuilding settlements than international law . The Americans believe the only solution to the Israeli - Palestinian conflict is the two - state solution . This plan envisions an Israeli and a Palestinian state living side by side , in peace . Settlements are built on the land the global community envision being a Palestinian state . In their estimation , Jewish settlements forestall , and could eventually end the possibility of implementing the two state solution . Many accuse Israel of building settlements specifically to prevent the establishment of a Palestinian state . In 1937 , the British Peel Commission offered a two - state solution , and the Arabs rejected the idea . The Arabs did so again in 1947 with the United Nations Partition Plan . In subsequent years , the Palestinians rejected countless offers of autonomy or statehood if they would end the conflict by signing a peace deal with Israel . Never ones to miss an opportunity to miss an opportunity , the Palestinians have rejected every peace deal offered by Israel . They have had plenty of chances to establish an independent Palestinian state , but their intransigence has prevented it . It seems the Palestinians aren & rsquo ; t interested in their own state alongside a Jewish state , they prefer a Palestinian state that takes the place of the Jewish state . Palestinian inflexibility isn & rsquo ; t the only problem plaguing the two - state solution . Not only do Palestinians refuse to negotiate peace with Israel , but they also utilize terrorism as a method of obtaining their political objectives . Contrary to a narrative popularly pushed by Western leaders and media , Palestinian terrorism isn & rsquo ; t just conducted by the extremists in Palestinian society . Terrorism has the support of Palestinian leadership and the people . Leaders incentivize terrorism through programs like & ldquo ; pay for slay & rdquo ;; teachers encourage violence by using examples of terrorism in their classrooms ; and society as a whole sends a clear message by naming streets , schools , and municipal buildings after terrorists . Palestinians expect the world to cater to their demands , reverse 75 years of history , and create a Palestinian state along the borders the United Nations set in 1947 . They imagine they can refuse to negotiate for peace and move to terrorism and there won & rsquo ; t be any consequences to their position . Their assumptions are irrational and unrealistic . The Palestinians have had multiple opportunities to create an independent state for themselves and have passed up on each and every opportunity for peace . Their rejectionism has consequences . It is time the world addressed Palestinians honestly . Instead of talking about a two - state solution and a & ldquo ; revamped & rdquo ; Palestinian Authority , it & rsquo ; s time the world told Palestinians they have given up the chance of a state . Their adoration of death , violence , and terrorism has defeated their aspirations for an independent state . They must give up their insistence on a state & ldquo ; From the river to the sea ,& rdquo ; and even in parts of it , and work towards a peaceful negotiated settlement with Israel . Further terrorism and intransigence will only make life worse for them , going forward . Until the world is ready to have this honest conversation with the Palestinians , they will continue to hold onto their unrealistic demands and increase their terrorism . The writer is a certified interfaith hospice chaplain in Jerusalem and the mayor of Mitzpe Yeriho , Israel . She lives with her husband and six children .