The Palestinian Authority hopes the US administration will fulfill its promises to the Palestinians ahead of President Joe Biden & rsquo ; s visit to the region next month , a PA official said Monday . The promises include reopening the US Consulate in Jerusalem , which was closed by the Trump administration in 2018 , and removing the PLO from the US Foreign Terrorist Organizations list , the official said . The US State Department delegation that visited Ramallah over the past few days promised to relay the Palestinian demands to the White House , he said . The US delegation , which was headed by Assistant Secretary of State Barbara Leaf and her deputy , Hady Amr , did not carry any proposals for reviving the stalled Israeli - Palestinian peace process , the official added . Instead , the talks with PA President Mahmoud Abbas , PLO Secretary - General Hussein al - Sheikh and General Intelligence Service Director Majed Faraj focused on ways of strengthening Palestinian - US relations and providing financial aid to the Palestinians , he said . PA Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh played down the significance of any US measures if they are not accompanied by a & ldquo ; political horizon & rdquo ; for resolving the Palestinian issue . The Biden administration has thus far fulfilled only one of its promises to the Palestinians & ndash ; the resumption of financial aid to the United Nations Relief and Work Agency for Palestine Refugees , he told the PA & rsquo ; s Palestine TV . During the meeting with Abbas on Saturday , the US officials discussed the US - Palestinian relationship , US assistance to the Palestinians , deepening bilateral ties and how Palestinians and Israelis deserve equal measures of freedom , security and prosperity , according to the US State Department . Abbas told the US officials the PA leadership was in the process of taking measures to confront the Israeli & ldquo ; escalation & rdquo ; in light of the inability of the international community to compel Israel to comply with the resolutions of international legitimacy and to & ldquo ; stop its criminal practices and its measures of ethnic cleansing and racial discrimination ,& rdquo ; the PA & rsquo ; s official Wafa news agency reported . Abbas did not say what measures the PA was considering to take . In the past , he had threatened to suspend all ties with Israel . Abbas also stressed the need to remove the PLO from the US Foreign Terrorist Organizations list and reopen the US Consulate in Jerusalem and the PLO office in Washington . US delegation meetingThe US delegation held another meeting with Sheikh and Faraj on Sunday evening as part of the preparations for Biden & rsquo ; s visit to the region . The sides discussed the latest developments in the Palestinian territories , including Israeli & ldquo ; escalation and settler terrorism and their daily assaults against the Aqsa Mosque ,& rdquo ; a reference to visits by Jews to the Temple Mount . Sheikh also stressed the need to reopen the US Consulate in Jerusalem and remove the PLO from the US Foreign Terrorist Organizations list . Sheikh said he talked about the economic aspects and the need to resume aid to the PA , as well as unilateral measures that undermine the two - state solution and peace prospects .& ldquo ; We need security , stability , an end to the occupation of our land , and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on the 1967 borders .& rdquo ; Hussein al - Sheikh & ldquo ; We need security , stability , an end to the occupation of our land and the establishment of an independent Palestinian state on the 1967 borders ,& rdquo ; Sheikh said , stressing the need to adhere to the agreements signed between the PLO and Israel .