After more than 30 years in office as mayor of Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim , Benny Kashriel was psyching himself up to move to Rome as Israel & rsquo ; s next ambassador to Italy . In recent years , Kashriel had been offered several opportunities to get out of local politics and into the Knesset . But he wasn & rsquo ; t interested . Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim was the love of his life , and he was happy to stay there and devote all his energies to its development . But Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and former foreign minister Eli Cohen had other plans for him , and persuaded him to enter the diplomatic corps . As a loyal Likudnik , Kashriel could refuse for only so long . But there & rsquo ; s one major obstacle by way of geography . Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim is located in the West Bank . That hasn & rsquo ; t deterred some leftists from living there , but it is a red rag to Italy , which declines to accept a West Bank & ldquo ; settler & rdquo ; as an ambassador in Rome . Even though he was not due to take up the appointment till well into the summer , at this stage of the game Kashriel cannot go back to being mayor , even though there are plenty of residents of Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim who would like to see him in that position . Hungary was mentioned as a possible alternative , but the next ambassador to Hungary has been approved both by Jerusalem and Budapest . The ideal situation would be for Israel to establish diplomatic relations with another country , and to accord Kashriel the honor of being Israel & rsquo ; s first ambassador there . But given Israel & rsquo ; s loss of popularity over events in Gaza , it & rsquo ; s unlikely for a new diplomatic relationship to materialize in the foreseeable future . Quickly forgotten & nbsp ;■ ONE OF the sad things about public figures is that once they resign or retire , they are quickly forgotten . A case in point is Moshe Mizrahi , who in the course of a long career served as director - general of both the offices of the president and the prime minister , and met scores of local and foreign dignitaries while safeguarding the interests of five prime ministers and two presidents . Mizrahi & rsquo ; s successors began to capture the interest of the media , and Mizrahi was all but forgotten , except by veteran journalists and by leading figures of his generation . Like many people who have led exciting and meaningful lives , and who have made significant contributions to the histories of their respective nations , Mizrahi decided to write a memoir , which he launched at the Peres Center for Peace and Innovation , where speakers included retired Supreme Court justice Elyakim Rubinstein , MK Avigdor Liberman , who has known Mizrahi for some 30 years , Matan Vilna & rsquo ; i , a former deputy chief of staff of the IDF , politician , and diplomat , and Efrat Duvdevani , the director - general of the Peres Center . All four spoke of Mizrahi & rsquo ; s strong sense of patriotism , his dedication , and his important contribution to the nation and its security . Mizrahi also took a copy of his book to the President & rsquo ; s Residence and personally presented to President Isaac Herzog , who , as the son and nephew of several of the nation & rsquo ; s dignitaries , was familiar with episodes and people mentioned in the book , and enjoyed reading about them as he skimmed through it . Abducted Holocaust historian named honoree of the 2024 Jan Karski Eagle Award & nbsp ;■ The Jan Karski Society has named abducted Holocaust historian Alex Dancyg as the honoree of the Jan Karski Eagle Award for 2024 . In May 2000 , only two months before his death , Karski established the award to be presented to people who have distinguished themselves by defending human rights , speaking out against aggression and on behalf of the integrity of ethnic and religious groups and sovereign nations . A Polish soldier , member of the Resistance during the Second World War , diplomat , academic , and author , Karski was captured by the Gestapo and tortured . He was smuggled out of prison , and , in an attempt to stop the Holocaust , traveled to Britain and the United States , to tell Allied leaders of what the Nazis had done to Poland and how they were exterminating the Jews of Europe . He migrated to the US after the war , but his heart remained in Poland , where he was always held in high esteem , as he was in Israel , where he was named Righteous Among the Nations and was awarded honorary citizenship . Warsaw - born Dancyg , who was associated with Yad Vashem , and who led many groups to Poland and facilitated dialogue between Polish and Israeli youth , was abducted by Hamas from his home at Kibbutz Nir Oz and taken to Gaza . Both Poland and Israel mounted campaigns for his return . Dancyg was mentioned by President Andrzej Duda at the traditional Hanukkah candle - lighting ceremony at the Presidential Palace in Warsaw . Speaking in the presence of Poland & rsquo ; s Chief Rabbi Michael Schudrich and Israeli Ambassador Yacov Livne , Duda noted that the Hanukkah candle - lighting tradition had been inaugurated by president Lech Kaczynski on December 18 , 2006 , and had taken place annually ever since . Duda said he is glad that after the Holocaust and other tragedies , citizens of Poland had over the past 30 years experienced the restoration of Jewish traditions and Jewish culture . Dancyg is not the first member of the Jewish faith to be considered deserving of the Jan Karski award . Others have included anti - Communist dissident Adam Michnik , former director of the Anti - Defamation League Abe Foxman , former president and prime minister Shimon Peres , and author , philosopher and Holocaust survivor Eli Wiesel . Canceling the Israel Prize categories ■ IT & rsquo ; S AMAZING the extent to which Education Minister Yoav Kisch manages to get himself into hot water . Up until now he has managed to extricate himself , but it will take a lot more effort this time , with his decision to cancel the Israel Prize awards in a year in which Israel most definitely needs a morale booster . But worse than the cancellation itself is the reason for it & ndash ; the fact that the Science Prize was to be awarded to Eyal Waldman , one of the most outspoken critics of Netanyahu and the planned judicial reform . Initially , Kisch wanted to simply cancel the category . But then he declared that because Israel is at war , it would be inappropriate to hold the Israel Prize awards ceremony this year . Why ? So many other events that are traditionally held on Independence Day will be held as usual . Look how many events are being held around the country for International Women & rsquo ; s Day . Aside from that , if Kisch wanted to cancel or postpone the Israel Prize awards ceremony , why did he not do so months ago ? Why wait till the adjudicating committee & rsquo ; s choice of Waldman was made public ? Why humiliate a bereaved father whose daughter Danielle and her boyfriend were murdered by Hamas ? Previous Israel Prize scandals ■ SOMETHING AS honorable as the Israel Prize should not be marred by scandal . Unfortunately , the current episode is not the first or even the second . In 1992 , Emile Habibi , an Arab politician who was also a gifted writer , was awarded the Israel Prize for Arabic literature . Arab nationalists pressured him not to accept it , but Habibi , who two years earlier had been awarded the Al Quds Prize for literature , argued that his being awarded the Israel Prize signified official recognition of a national culture , adding that a dialogue over prizes was preferable to arguing over stones and bullets . There were many Jews who also objected to Habibi receiving the Israel Prize , so much so that right - wing die - hard Yuval Neeman , who had received the Israel Prize for physics in 1969 , returned it in 1992 to emphasize his displeasure . There was also a scandal the following year , in 1993 , when Yeshayahu Leibowitz , a controversial , outspoken Orthodox philosopher and scientist , was selected to receive the Israel Prize . Leibowitz had urged Israeli soldiers to refuse orders that would in any way be harmful to peaceful Palestinians . Yitzhak Rabin , who was then prime minister , declared that he would not attend the ceremony if Leibowitz was to receive the prize . Unwilling to fan the flames of controversy on the most important national day of the year , Leibowitz declined to accept the prize . The year 2021 was an uncomfortable one for Yoav Gallant , who was then education minister , with two Israel Prize scandals on his hands . One of the people selected for the prize was Yehuda Meshi - Zahav , a haredi and former anti - Zionist activist who founded ZAKA and changed his attitude to the extent of sending his sons to the army . But after it was announced that Gallant had informed him of his selection for the Israel Prize , stories began to surface about years of sexual abuse that Meshi - Zahav had inflicted on both religious and secular women . As police began their investigations , Meshi - Zahav decided to forgo the prize and also resigned from ZAKA . He subsequently tried to commit suicide , but was rescued by one of his sons . However , he remained in a coma for more than a year before he died . In 2021 , Prof . Oded Goldreich of the Weizmann Institute of Science was also selected to be awarded the Israel Prize . His category was mathematics . But Gallant refused to accept the recommendation of the jury , alleging that Goldreich supported the Boycott , Divestment and Sanctions movement . Goldreich denied the allegation , stating that all he had done was to add his signature to those on a petition calling on the EU to halt its funding to Ariel University , which is located in the West Bank . The jury petitioned the High Court of Justice on Goldreich & rsquo ; s behalf , and fellow Prof . David Harel , who was among the Israel Prize winners in 2004 , offered to share his prize with Goldreich . Yifat Shasha - Biton , who had succeeded Gallant as education minister , agreed with his decision on Goldreich . But a month later , Avichai Mandelblit , who was then the attorney - general , told the High Court that in his opinion the prize should be awarded to Goldreich . In March 2022 , the court ruled that the prize should be awarded to Goldreich , who eventually received the prize in a private ceremony at the Education Ministry , and announced that he would donate the prize money of NIS 75 , 000 to five human rights organizations , including Breaking the Silence . Netanyahu would earn brownie points if he made a public statement to the effect that the Israel Prize is awarded on merit in a certain field , and that it should in no way be influenced by political considerations . He should add that even though he and Waldman are at complete odds politically , he recognizes Waldman & rsquo ; s contribution to technology , and will be pleased to congratulate him on that issue at the Israel Prize ceremony . Israeli professor awarded world & rsquo ; s most prestigious prize for brain research ■ AS PRIZES go , the media are , of course , focused on the Israel Prize , and in paying so much attention , some media outlets may overlook the fact that an Israeli has been awarded the world & rsquo ; s most prestigious prize for brain research . Prof . Haim Sompolinsky , a physicist and neuroscience researcher at the Edmond and Lily Safra Center for Neuroscience at the Hebrew University and professor at the Center for Brain Science at Harvard University , is the first Israeli scientist to receive The Brain Prize , which is awarded by the Lundbeck Foundation to pioneers in the field of neuroscience . He shares the & euro ; 1 . 3 million prize with Prof . Larry Abbott of Columbia University and Prof . Terrence Sejnowski of the Salk Institute . Sompolinsky is widely acclaimed for his groundbreaking work in theoretical and computational neuroscience , particularly in the study of neural circuit dynamics in the brain . His research has significantly contributed to the understanding of how neural circuits process and encode information , map the external world , and participate in learning and memory . Through a combination of theoretical and computational approaches , his work has elucidated key computational principles underlying brain function . The Brain Prize , initiated in 2011 and awarded annually by the Lundbeck Foundation , is considered the most prestigious award in neuroscience . It recognizes researchers whose work has advanced the field , from fundamental research to clinical applications . Sompolinsky & rsquo ; s research not only deepens the knowledge of the brain & rsquo ; s inner workings but also holds promise for applications in brain - inspired artificial intelligence . In congratulating Sompolinsky , Hebrew University President Prof . Asher Cohen stated : & ldquo ; Prof . Sompolinsky & rsquo ; s Brain Prize triumph is a testament to his pioneering contributions in computational neuroscience , unraveling neural circuit dynamics and laying the foundation for insights into information processing . His groundbreaking work inspires artificial intelligence , blending experimentation and theory to illuminate fundamental computational principles in brain function .& ldquo ; This recognition not only honors his exceptional achievements but serves as a beacon guiding us toward further revelations at the intersection of neuroscience and computation .& rdquo ; Sompolinsky and his two colleagues will receive the 2024 Brain Prize at a ceremony in Copenhagen in June . Brain Prize recipients were previously presented with their awards by the crown prince of Denmark , who is now king . It is not yet known whether he will continue to do so in his role as monarch . Sompolinsky is the son of the late Prof . David Sompolinsky , who was born in Denmark , and whose personal history was one that pointed not only to academic success but also to heroism . Together with friends from the Danish underground , he saved hundreds of Danish Jews from Nazi persecution in October 1943 by smuggling them on fishing boats to a safe haven in Sweden . Shai Piron calls on haredim to enlist ■ FORMER EDUCATION minister Shai Piron , who is religious and studied in several yeshivot before , during , and after his service in the IDF , has lost friends , colleagues , and students in the war against Hamas . He has called on haredim to enlist & ldquo ; because we need you .& rdquo ; Haredim have been extremely active in numerous civilian operations on behalf of soldiers and evacuees . If they could take time out from Torah studies , simply to do good , why not to defend ? Then again , some haredi men who have enlisted , because they understood the meaning of mutual responsibility , have been disappointed by not being called to fight after a year & rsquo ; s intensive training . One of them , in conversation on KAN Reshet Bet with Liat Regev , told her that he had not been called up , and did not know why , and he knew of other haredi young men who had voluntarily enlisted , spent a year in training , and were still sitting at home , waiting for a call - up . What is the point of this if the defense establishment doesn & rsquo ; t want to have haredim on the battlefield ? If it does want them , why not call them up when they & rsquo ; re willing to fight and put their lives on the line ? Haredim who sign up display special courage , because there is so much pressure on them from their families and their communities not to do so .■ ON ANOTHER , more personal issue , Piron is as pleased as punch . His daughter Or Piron Zomer campaigned to head the Oranit Council & ndash ; and triumphed . She is one of the very few female council heads in Israel .■ MOST OF the many International Women & rsquo ; s Day events are simply a means of acknowledging the success of women achievers in a variety of professions and entrepreneurial activities & ndash ; both social and business . Factory 54 , which specializes in high - class fashion and carries merchandise with the labels of the world & rsquo ; s best - known designers , went one better on Tuesday , in that the event that it hosted at its store in the Ramat Aviv Mall was for the benefit of the next generation . Held in conjunction with , and on behalf of , Babies for Life , an organization that rescues and adopts hungry infants during the first year of their lives , and helps single mothers and families suffering from economic distress , the event featured noted broadcaster Dana Weiss and veteran singer Rita talking about everything and anything . The two celebs represent women & rsquo ; s voices , and among the subjects they discussed was woman & rsquo ; s voice during the present war . The occasion also gave people who like to mingle with celebs the opportunity to do so . There were quite a few celebs on hand , in addition to the two who were conducting the conversation . Exchanging views on implications of genocide case ■ ISRAEL & rsquo ; S IMMEDIATE past attorney - general , Mandelblit , is currently in New York with Amit Becher , the president of the Israel Bar Association , to join UJA lawyers in a panel discussion in which they will exchange views on implications of the genocide accusations against Israel at the International Court of Justice and the future of judicial reform in Israel . The big question is whether the outcome in either case will affect Israel & rsquo ; s diplomatic status . Embassies celebrate independence day amid war & nbsp ;■ BEARING IN mind the security situation , some embassies have canceled their traditional Independence Day receptions , while others have thought up different ways in which to celebrate . The Hungarian Embassy , for instance , will celebrate the anniversary of the 1848 - 49 Hungarian Revolution and War of Independence with an online screening of Gabor Herendi & rsquo ; s blockbuster movie Kincsem ( My Precious ), which was the name of the famous Hungarian thoroughbred racehorse with the longest undefeated record in history , winning all of her 54 races . The movie is a period drama love story set in 19th - century Hungary . The link to the film and the required password can be acquired from the Hungarian Embassy at the email address rsvp . tlv @ mfa . gov . hu /. Registration by March 13 is essential . The link and password will be sent to the email address that would - be viewers have indicated , just before the start of the screening , which is scheduled for 5 p . m . on Thursday , March 14 . When registering please state how many viewers there will be . Following the screening the movie will be available for an additional 24 hours to people who had other commitments on the above mentioned date to see it . Estonia sets the trend ■ IT WAS published recently in this column that the Estonian Embassy wanted to celebrate its Independence Day with both fun and good deeds . Estonian Ambassador Veikko Kala may have started a trend among some of his colleagues . The idea was that all the guests would congregate at the Cooking Studio in Tel Aviv , and under the supervision of professional chefs would prepare kosher meals for evacuees , thereby adding to Israel & rsquo ; s national resilience . Many of the invitees loved the idea , and some 120 showed up & ndash ; approximately half of them diplomats and half Israelis , as well as friends who were neither diplomats nor Israelis . Altogether , there were more than the embassy expected . Each participant received the gift of an Estonian apron with the embassy logo and the slogan & ldquo ; Estonia cooks with you .& rdquo ; During approximately one and a half hours , they prepared salmon , beef stew , roast chicken , beef patties , and tofu , served with rice , potatoes , and green beans . Anyone hoping for a taste of Estonian cuisine was disappointed , but it was such a fun evening that no one minded the Israeli fare that was served afterward with wine . Guests who had minimal kitchen experience quickly learned to chop , slice , cook , and pack . Generally , when one talks of stirring the pot , it means causing tension , but in this case Gil Haskel , chief of State Protocol , was literally stirring the pot as he shared a work counter with Croatian Ambassador Vesela Korac and the deputy heads of mission of Portugal and Italy . Some 300 meals were prepared , and because the date coincided with the second anniversary of the Russian invasion of Ukraine , recipients included Israeli evacuees and Ukrainian refugees who are being sheltered in Israel for the duration of the war in their homeland . An extra bonus for the guests was that many were working side by side with people they had not previously known , and were thus able to make new friends with ease . After all their work , they were rewarded with a mouthwatering supper washed down with excellent wine . greerfc @ gmail . com