Education Minister Yoav Kisch announced Thursday that the Israel Prize ceremony will be held during the country ' s 76th Independence Day , the first of such following the October 7 massacre in the city of Sderot .& nbsp ; Following the outbreak of the Israel - Hamas war , Kisch decided to hold the annual Israel Prize this year as a sign of revival , civil heroism , and mutual guarantee . Special recognition will be given to Israeli citizens who demonstrated extraordinary bravery and contributed to the revival of the state following the outbreak of war .& nbsp ; This year , in addition to the three awards celebrating Israeli revival , two - lifetime achievement awards , and nine awards in other professional categories will be given .& nbsp ; Confirmation of Netanyahu critic & nbsp ; The education minister announced six additional winners . The announcement also provided the first confirmation of Eyal Waldman , an Israeli tech businessman , who criticized Prime Minister Netanyahu over the judicial reform policies passed by the government . Kisch reportedly requested that the committee that voted on the prize not give the prize to Waldman .& nbsp ; The ceremony also comes after Kisch ' s initial demand to cancel the ceremony , which resulted in Israel ' s High Court requesting the government to provide justifications for the cancellation .& nbsp ; The winners include the following : The Israel Prize in Psychology Research is awarded to Prof . Gershon Ben Shahar . The Israel Prize in Life Sciences Research is awarded to Prof . Hagai Bergman . The Israel Prize for Entrepreneurship and Technological Innovation is awarded to Mr . Eyal Waldman . The Israel Prize in Torah Literature and Hebrew Law is awarded to Rishon Lezion , the Chief Rabbi of Israel , Rabbi Yitzhak Yosef . The Israel Prize for Research in Mathematics , Computer Science , and Computer Engineering is awarded to Prof . Vitali Milman . The Israel Prize for Economic Research and Statistics Research is awarded to Prof . Yaakov Ritov . Kisch noted in his statement that " this year , we will hold the Israel Prize ceremony with the heroic residents of the city of Sderot . The State of Israel is at war , and we cherish our soldiers at the front , we remember our hostage brothers and sisters , and we praise the heroism and spirit that has pulsated in the nation since the dawn of history ."" The Israel Prize is an award for Israeli excellence , and the honor of the winners is the honor of the State of Israel . Unfortunately , in my announcement today , there were no women honorees , only men . The discretion in this matter is in the hands of the companies and members of the various committees , and I hope that they will choose deserving women in the following categories ."" The hour is the hour of war ; the order of the hour is unity , and together , Israeli excellence will face every challenge and defeat every enemy ," Kisch said .& nbsp ;