Every year , in April , the official Israeli Eurovision Amateur Club gathers to celebrate the event and wish the Israeli representative of that year a safe journey . The annual event took place on Friday morning at the Centro Club in Tel Aviv . The ceremony opened with a moment of silence for the victims of October 7 and a call to return the hostages in Gaza , when a banner of their photos was placed on the stage throughout the event . The first to take the stage was the singer Ilanit , the first singer to represent Israel in the competition 50 years ago , in 1973 . She was followed by Mei Finegold , who represented Israel a decade ago in 2014 . When she was asked what she thought of those who were against Israel in the competition , she answered - " Those who hate will hate and die . Those who love will differ and have a long life ." Eden Golan ' s timeThen came the moment everyone was waiting for : the appearance of this year ' s act , Eden Golan , on the stage . Eden came with good energy but couldn ' t stop the excitement when her song " Hurricane " was played , and the whole audience joined her in singing . At the end of the song , she thanked the audience and explained how important and exciting it is to represent Israel this year when she said , " Our song sits deep in my heart , I found myself in its words . I want to make people feel something ." When asked if she had heard the other contestants ' songs , she answered yes and " If you put everything that happens in the political section aside , I really like the Swiss song , but I think I have a really good song and even the best in this year ' s competition ." Also performing at the event was Israeli drag queen Kimberly Swann who performed " My Heart " - a song that Golan sang during her time on the Rising Star competition . Joining Swann onstage was Ziv Abud , the fianc & eacute ; e of the abducted Elia Cohen , wearing a yellow dress with chains and pictures of the hostages , and held a sign that said " My fianc & eacute ; e is kidnapped in Gaza ." Eden joined the other two in the performance . Eden admitted that she didn ' t know this performance was going to happen . " I couldn ' t hold back the tears , it ' s a subject I still can ' t digest to this day ." She turned to Abud and told her " It ' s amazing to see you standing here , with all this & nbsp ; strength and I really want to put that on the stage and make our voice heard as a country to show everyone that we are here and that we must bring everyone home and no one will break us ." We are here together , we are all a huge family . I feel everyone ' s support and love so much and I really feel that the whole country is with me and that is something that I will never forget ," Golan added . " This year pierces so deeply into my heart and it is a huge privilege to be at Eurovision in such a year ."