Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced to his party , the Likud , that he would not renege on passing the ultra - Orthodox draft bill and that without the bill , the government would not remain in place , KAN Reshet B reported on Monday morning . Netanyahu & rsquo ; s announcement came in the wake of minister - without - portfolio and National Unity chair Benny Gantz & rsquo ; s warning that he would leave the war cabinet should the bill be passed and reports of several Likud ministers ' opposition to the bill . The bill , should it pass , would extend the exemption from IDF conscription for haredi ( ultra - Orthodox ) Jews . The bill is set to be brought to a vote in the cabinet on Tuesday . The subject of drafting the haredim into the IDF has been a point of contention , particularly in recent weeks , and has sparked a number of protests . Protests conducted by haredi men have sprung up in cities including Jerusalem and Bnei Brak , where protestors have blocked traffic and the light rail in demonstrations of opposition to the push to include them in Israel & rsquo ; s military draft . Despite Netanyahu & rsquo ; s message to Likud , there has been doubt expressed within the part about whether the bill could pass . Likud member Hanoch Milwidsky , in a Monday interview on 103FM , expressed his disbelief that the draft of the bill , as it currently stands , could pass , adding , & ldquo ; I didn ' t write it . Moreover , no one consulted me before they wrote it ." In an interview with Army Radio , Likud MK and former Israeli ambassador to the United Nations , Danny Danon , echoed Milwidsky ' s comment , saying , " It is clear to me that this version will not come to a vote in the Knesset . There are many missing elements , and time will allow for significant changes ." Gantz : People will not tolerate draft exemption extensionOn Sunday , Gantz voiced firm opposition to the bill , saying , & ldquo ; The people will not tolerate it , the Knesset will not be able to vote in favor of it , and my associates and I cannot be part of this emergency government if this law passes .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; If the draft law passes on Tuesday , Gantz and ( minister - without - portfolio ) [ Gadi ] Eisenkot would leave the government ,& rdquo ; KAN Reshet B quoted opposition leader and Yesh Atid Chair Yair Lapid as saying on Monday . & ldquo ; It ' s a security disaster . There aren ' t enough soldiers . There are more soldiers today in Judea and Samaria ( the West Bank ) than in Gaza . Practically , the actual war is not being conducted at the moment ." KAN also noted that Lapid directly attacked Netanyahu .& ldquo ; Netanyahu was and remains a rabbit in closed rooms ,& rdquo ; Lapid reportedly said . & ldquo ; I fought with the Americans much more than he did as prime minister .& rdquo ;