Daoud Zubeidi , the brother of Palestinian prisoner Zakaria Zubeidi who temporarily escaped from Gilboa Prison last year , died on Sunday from wounds sustained during armed clashes with Israeli forces in Burkin on Friday . He was shot in the abdomen after forces from the YAMAM counterterrorism unit , Border Police and Sayeret Golani entered the village near Jenin to arrest wanted Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) member Mahmoud Al - Debai on Friday morning . During the operation , which lasted close to four hours , clashes with gunmen injured 13 Palestinians , including two seriously and five moderately . One of the seriously wounded Palestinian gunmen was identified as Zubeidi . He was transferred to the Ibn Sina hospital in Jenin for medical care and then to Rambam Medical Center in Haifa , following a request from the Palestinians when his condition deteriorated . The hospital confirmed his death . Israel is reportedly withholding his body .& nbsp ; Following attacks in which Palestinians are killed by Israeli security forces , their bodies are regularly taken to Israel . Though bodies are sometimes retired to their families at a later date to be buried , Israel has also withheld bodies in order to be used as part of future negotiations and as a deterrent against terror attacks .& nbsp ; The Al - Aqsa Martyrs Brigades in Jenin had warned on Saturday that & ldquo ; any harm to the life of the wounded Daoud Al - Zubeidi will open the fire of hell in the face of the Zionist enemy and herds of criminal settlers .& rdquo ; Zubeidi & rsquo ; s brother Zakaria escaped from Gilboa Prison along with three other security prisoners in September . He was once considered a & ldquo ; symbol of the Intifada ,& rdquo ; but renounced militancy over a decade ago and was awarded clemency by Israel after he agreed to give up arms . He had been arrested by the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) in 2019 following intelligence that he was planning a serious attack in the West Bank and for two shooting attacks against Israeli buses in the West Bank near Beit El and Psagot . During the clashes in which Zubeidi was injured , YAMAM counterterrorism officer Sgt .- Maj . Noam Raz was shot and critically wounded . He was evacuated to Rambam hospital by helicopter where he succumbed to his wounds . A senior IDF officer told journalists that said he was shot in the back as forces were leaving the village under fire .& ldquo ; I & rsquo ; ve been through everything over the past 20 years , but there were thousands of bullets fired towards us and our vehicles this morning ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; It was indescribable .& rdquo ; Raz was buried on Sunday morning on Mount Herzl with hundreds of mourners in attendance . Security forces have been on high alert across the country as Israeli Arabs and Palestinians mark Nakba Day & ndash ; the 74th anniversary of what the Arab world refer to as & ldquo ; the catastrophe & rdquo ; following the founding in 1948 of the State of Israel . Tensions are already high following a spate of deadly terrorist attacks that have killed 19 people in Israel .