Recently , there has been a flood of requests for monetary help on serious health issues ; widowed mothers of large families left destitute ; a haredi man who naively agreed to put an extra parcel in his luggage , not knowing that it contained cocaine , is languishing in prison , with his wife claiming that he is dying there ; and a whole bunch of other requests for aid . Most are truly heartbreaking , but they raise certain doubts . In nearly all cases , they appear to be from members of haredi communities . They are written in perfect English , even though they come from people who supposedly learned minimal English at school . The personal address of the sender is omitted , so there & rsquo ; s no way to check the authenticity of the story , which makes receivers of such messages & ndash ; some of which come at the rate of three or four a day & ndash ; feel guilty when the request is to save the life of a baby with a brain tumor or a severe heart problem . But the ones that really arouse suspicion are posts from brides who , on the day before the wedding , still don & rsquo ; t have the money to purchase a wedding dress , let alone refreshments for the guests . First of all , in haredi and also non - haredi circles , there & rsquo ; s a traditional charitable outlet called a gemah ( an abbreviation of gemilut hassadim , meaning giving charity , doing good deeds ) which provides wedding dresses and formal wear free of charge , or at a symbolic rental cost to all and sundry . In the case of an orphan bride or one who comes from a needy family , in the haredi community neighbors band together to provide a modest repast to celebrate the occasion . So there is no need for alleged brides to ask for help in purchasing a wedding gown , when they can get one gratis . But there are genuine cases , which should have where to turn , in addition to any help they may receive from local and government welfare services . An example is a same - sex couple , Michal and Rotem and their four - year - old daughter , Omer , who were rescued from the atrocities surrounding their home on Kibbutz Be & rsquo ; eri . One of the women was six months pregnant and subsequently gave birth to twins . The babies brought much light and joy into the lives of their parents , but unfortunately , one of them , Shahar , was born with a severe heart defect that urgently requires surgery . The surgery he needs is not available in Israel and can be performed only in Boston . The cost is prohibitive , and there is nothing that either of the mothers owns that can be sold to pay for the expenses involved . While the Boston Jewish community might be of some assistance , it is unlikely that it could cover all the costs . Anyone who wants to help , may do so via https :// yanshufim . giveback . co . il / Our_Heart_HeLooking into newly - elected Mexican president ' s Jewish pastMOST PEOPLE who are second - or third - generation Holocaust survivors make a point of telling the stories of parents or grandparents who were actual survivors . Apparently , this does not apply to Mexico & rsquo ; s recently elected president , Claudia Sheinbaum , who is her country & rsquo ; s first female and first Jewish president - elect . Writing in The Forward , Andrew Silverstein noted that Sheinbaum has stated that her mother was born in Mexico , whereas records suggest she was born in Bulgaria and survived the Holocaust . One wonders why Sheinbaum would want to hide such a fact . ALTHOUGH HE spent a large part of his life away from his native Jerusalem , novelist and playwright A . B . Yehoshua , a graduate of Gymnasia Rehavia and the Hebrew University , will be commemorated in the city of his birth on the second anniversary of his death . The title of a tribute evening at Mishkenot Sha & rsquo ; ananim , & ldquo ; We had a Lover ,& rdquo ; is based on lines from his 1977 novel , The Lover : & ldquo ; We lost a lover in the last war . We had a lover , but since that war , we haven & rsquo ; t had one . He simply disappeared .& rdquo ; The evening , moderated by Avi Gil , will be completely dedicated to the admiration and yearning for Yehoshua and will feature the launch of Gil & rsquo ; s biography , The Mission of A . B . Yehoshua , which covers the different stages in the life of the man considered to be the backbone of contemporary Hebrew literature . Among other participants will be actress Michal Bat - Adam , who directed and starred in the film The Lover ; Yair Kedar , who directed the film The Last Chapter of A . B . Yehoshua , parts of which will be screened during the evening ; book reviewer Dan Meron , who was also a close friend of Yehoshua ; and Prof . Eilat Shamir , who was a student and friend of the author & rsquo ; s son Gidi Yehoshua . WITH REGARD to films , Roni Mahadav - Levin , the CEO of the Jerusalem Cinematheque , is giving film buffs ample notice to save the date for the 41st annual Jerusalem Film Festival , which traditionally takes place in the summer , while the annual Jewish film festival takes place in the winter . The Jerusalem Film Festival will be held July 18 - 27 , 2024 , in an effort to restore what used to be perceived as normal life . The festival is being held with the support of the Culture Ministry , the Van Leer Foundation , and the Jerusalem Foundation .& ldquo ; Sadly , this is not the first time that the festival is being held in the shadow of war ,& rdquo ; said Mahadav - Levin . & ldquo ; But both in good times and difficult times , we believe in the need to create and screen good films , in the belief in the power of the art of film in strengthening , healing , and giving hope that a different reality is possible .& ldquo ; This can be seen through the myriad of films that will be shown during the festival .& rdquo ; VP Harris views Oct . 7 documentary & nbsp ; FOLLOWING SCREENINGS in Israel of Screams Before Silence , the moving documentary in which philanthropist and former Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg meets Supernova music festival survivors and returned hostages , the film was shown in part at the White House this week , where it was viewed by Vice President Kamila Harris , who was joined by Sandberg and returned hostage Amit Soussana . Soussana said that , while in captivity , she had no control over her mind , body , or soul . Although it was difficult for her to tell her story of sexual abuse and violence by Hamas , she said , it was more difficult to remain silent .& ldquo ; We cannot look away ,& rdquo ; said Harris . & ldquo ; We must not be silent .& rdquo ; A PHOTO exhibition designed to draw attention to the hostages still waiting to return from Gaza can be seen at Tel Aviv & rsquo ; s Charles Bronfman Auditorium , and will remain on view till June 29 . Hundreds of amateur and professional photographers from across the country submitted photos , and paring down the choice was extremely difficult . Perhaps photos not chosen can be sent to other cities , so that , in the final analysis , most will be seen by a wider public . Among people attending the opening were representatives of the hostage families , executive members of Bank Hapoalim and Yoman Masa ( Travelog ), which sponsored the exhibition , and survivors of the October 7 Hamas assault , including Sharon Sharabi , whose brothers Yossi and Eli , were kidnapped from Kibbutz Be & rsquo ; eri . Yossi was subsequently murdered . Eli & rsquo ; s fate is unknown . His wife and two daughters were murdered . Merav Berger , the mother of Agam Berger , one of the IDF lookout team of observers who was abducted from Kibbutz Nahal Oz , came with other members of the Berger family . A photo by Dana Draznin under the title Homage to Agam features Agam & rsquo ; s parents , Shlomo and Merav , holding the violin that Agam loved to play . The exhibition was the brainchild of Igal Bareket , Hapoalim & rsquo ; s chief marketing officer , who happens to be an avid amateur photographer . Bareket was on hand with Hapoalim CEO Dov Kotler and Yoman Masa owner Itamar Peleg . AS ONE of his final ceremonial deeds in office , Australian Governor - General David Hurley , as the representative in Australia of King Charles , conferred King Charles Birthday honors on more than 700 people , among them South African - born Prof . Vernon Van Heerden , director of the department of general intensive care at Hadassah Medical Center , in Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Ein Kerem . Van Heerden was awarded the Order of Australia for & ldquo ; significant service to intensive care medicine , to professional associations , and to tertiary education .& rdquo ; Hurley will be succeeded on July 1 by Samantha Mostyn , who will become Australia & rsquo ; s 28th governor - general . A truly remarkable woman , Mostyn & rsquo ; s CV is absolutely mind - boggling . Known for her exceptional service to the Australian community , Mostyn is a businesswoman and community leader with a long history in executive and governance roles across diverse sectors . In 2021 , she was appointed an officer of the Order of Australia for distinguished service to business , the community , and women . She has been a member of the Australian Faculty of The Prince of Wales & rsquo ; s Business & amp ; Sustainability Program for 12 years , and a senior associate in the international program . The daughter of an army officer , Mostyn is a lawyer by training , who launched her career as an associate in the Court of Appeal of the New South Wales Supreme Court , and has worked at law firms Freehills and Gilbert and Tobin . She has more recently been awarded an honorary doctorate of laws from the Australian National University . Mostyn has also had an extensive career in the Australian business community , including working at senior levels in telecommunications and insurance companies in Australia and globally . She has also held senior nonexecutive roles on boards , including Transurban and Virgin Australia , and has been chairwoman of Citibank Australia . She currently chairs AWARE Super and Alberts Music Group and is on the board of Mirvac . In addition , she has been a commissioner with the Australian Football League and a driving force behind the AFL Women & rsquo ; s football . As if all that is not enough , Mostyn has chaired multiple not - for - profit boards , including Beyond Blue , the Foundation of Young Australians , Australians Investing in Women , Ausfilm , the Australian National Research Organization for Women & rsquo ; s Safety , and Australian Volunteers International . She has been president of the Australian Council for International Development and president of Chief Executive Women , as well as a National Mental Health Commission commissioner . The governor - general holds office at the pleasure of the king . However , the term is usually understood to be five years . It will be interesting to see what Mostyn will accomplish during that period . IT & rsquo ; S DIFFICULT to measure patriotism or even to define it . People of totally opposing views may regard themselves as patriots and the others as traitors . In Israel , the latter connotation usually goes hand in hand with being called a leftist , whereas , when the boot is on the other foot , one of the unsavory epithets is & ldquo ; fascist .& rdquo ; A battle over patriotism is brewing between two social media combatants , Yair Netanyahu , the elder son of the prime minister , and Ran Rahav , one of Israel & rsquo ; s leading public relations executives . In recent days , Yair Netanyahu released a video in which he denigrates IDF Chief of Staff Lt .- Gen . Herzi Halevi , Israel Security Agency head Ronen Bar , and former head of Military Intelligence Maj .- Gen . Aharon Haliva , who resigned after acknowledging the intelligence failure that led to the October 7 massacre . Accompanying a montage of the trio is a caption : & ldquo ; Who appointed you ?& rdquo ; Further along is an attack on Benny Gantz , who has previously been targeted by Netanyahu Jr . Did his father not tell him that things like that are not done in a time of war ? Many influential political , diplomatic , and military experts have attributed the Hamas assault on Israel to the perception that a divided society is weak and vulnerable . What was Netanyahu Jr . thinking in driving the wedge further than it is already ? Rahav , who never hesitates to speak his mind over what he considers to be injustice , was fast in using his X account and his own brand of scorn . He suggested that Netanyahu Jr . desist from opening his mouth against the defense establishment during the war for as long as the State of Israel pays for him to have a bodyguard .& ldquo ; It costs millions ,& rdquo ; wrote Rahav . & ldquo ; The least you can do is respect the Israeli taxpayer . After the war , there will be a State Commission of inquiry , headed by an emeritus president of the Supreme Court , and you can testify before it . But until then , someone protected by his state cannot open his mouth in a time of war .& rdquo ; A THREE - DAY day festival of tours and literary activities for the junior generation will be held at the National Library of Israel in celebration of Hebrew Book Week . Events will be held Monday through Wednesday , June 24 - 26 , 4 p . m .- 11 p . m ., and will include musical performances , meetings , tours , and various activities for children & ndash ; all dedicated to Hebrew literature and creativity . Among the events will be a musical performance on Monday , hosted by Lior Ashkenazi , to mark the 100th anniversary of the birth of Israel & rsquo ; s poet laureate Yehuda Amichai . An outdoor event , presented in the plaza of the Idan and Batia Ofer Park , it will feature Shlomi Shaban , Assaf Amdursky , Alon Eder , Shai Tsabari , Rona Kenan , and others . On Tuesday , there will be concurrent events : & ldquo ; Naomi Shemer , An Israeli Biography ,& rdquo ; marking the 20th anniversary of the death of Israel & rsquo ; s premier songwriter , with the participation of Lely Shemer , Kenan , Yuval Mendelson , Amir Benayoun , and Avigayil Koevary , who will present Shemer & rsquo ; s best - loved compositions . At the same time , there will be a tour of the library & rsquo ; s best treasures & ndash ; a rare glimpse of drafts authored by Hebrew literature & rsquo ; s greatest writers and poets . Also on Tuesday , there will be a conversation with Yishai Sarid about the soldiers in the books he writes , and in Hebrew literature in general . There will also be another conversation , with authors Haim Be & rsquo ; er , Yaniv Iczkovits , Yael Neeman , and Judith Kagan , who will discuss with Yuval Avivi texts that took on new meaning after October 7 . In addition to all this , the library & rsquo ; s bookmobile , Ir - Meow - hu , will offer a theater show , books , and games throughout the three days , and the library bookstore will be open . The book 101 Treasures From the National Library of Israel is available in English and Hebrew . Ticket prices for Hebrew Book Week events at the library range from NIS 30 to NIS 160 , with discounts for soldiers and evacuees . For more details and to purchase tickets , visit the National Library of Israel website ( in Hebrew ): https :// book - week . nli . org . ilDALIAT AL - Carmel Mayor Rafik Halabi , who in another lifetime was a prizewinning radio and television journalist , added his voice to those of Sheikh Muafak Tarif , the head of the Druze community , and Nazih Dabbour , the head of the Beit Jann local authority , in response to the death of fallen soldier Capt . Wassem Mahmoud , who was due to be released from the Army on April 1 , but insisted on going back into Gaza to fight with his comrades . It is part of the Druze tradition to be absolutely loyal to the host country of which they are citizens , but the Israel government does not respect this , and in the opinion of members of the Druze community , they are treated as second - class citizens . Halabi said that heads of Druze local councils had met with Netanyahu last week to express their concerns about receiving inadequate budgets from the state , and to continue their protests against the Nation - State Law . Halabi and Dabbour also made the point that on a percentage basis , Beit Jann has the highest army casualty rate in the country . They could not understand why a community that has given so much receives so little in return . Dabbour also noted that soldiers who fall behind in paying their mortgages , or who have built homes without the proper legal permission , go to fight in Gaza , and return to find their homes destroyed on orders by the Israeli authorities . Bedouin trackers , who are among the best in the country and are also serving in the IDF , if they live in illegal villages may not find their homes when they return from the army . Their homes may have been bulldozed . How does Israel expect to maintain the loyalty of its minority communities , if it treats them in such an insensitive and disrespectful manner ? THE BIG question on the minds of many Israelis is will Israel recover fully from October 7 ? To anyone who experienced the Yom Kippur War , the answer is yes . The misery and uncertainty that now encompass the country were in a sense even more horrific then than now , because there were no mobile phones , no fax , and not every home possessed a ground line telephone . The IDF death toll was 2 , 691 during a war that lasted for less than a month . As painful as the current IDF casualty rate is , there are far fewer fallen soldiers over a much longer period , though there have been a larger number of civilian casualties , particularly on October 7 itself . In the early days after the Hamas massacre , Shani Louk , a pretty 22 - year - old dual national who carried German as well as Israeli citizenship , became the global symbol of Hamas tyranny and inhumanity . Kidnapped at the Supernova music festival by Hamas terrorists wearing body cams , a video of her unconscious body on the back of a truck was circulated around the globe . Her family clung to the hope that she was still alive , especially after information filtered through that she was being treated in a Gaza hospital . German Ambassador to Israel Steffen Seibert maintained close contact with the Louk family and helped to publicize its ordeal and Germany & rsquo ; s concern . On October 30 , Shani Louk & rsquo ; s death was confirmed . On Wednesday , June 19 , at 7 p . m ., her parents , Ricarda and Nissim Louk , will talk about the beloved , happy - go - lucky , music - loving daughter they remember at a special evening honoring Shani & rsquo ; s memory . Sharing in that conversation , organized by Tribe Israel , will be Rabbi Shmuley Boteach . The venue is Capella , Hagag Tower , 28 Ha & rsquo ; arba Street , Tel Aviv . Admission is free of charge . The event is reserved for people in Shani Louk & rsquo ; s age - group . WITH THE ongoing transformation of the State of Israel that inter alia includes changes in the law , politics , the skyline , and the values we once held dear , the question arises as to whether future changes will include the establishment of a casino . The late casino mogul Sheldon Adelson wanted to establish a casino in Eilat so that the southern resort city would truly become the Las Vegas of the Middle East . But he was strongly opposed by a cabinet minister , the late Yosef Burg , who was afraid that a casino would become a den of vice , peddling drugs and promoting prostitution . Adelson & rsquo ; s vision on that score was never realized . In an interview with the writer of this column , during the period in which he was still trying to convince the Israeli authorities , Adelson said that he had never seen anyone have sex on a gambling table . Since then , he married an Israeli and built casino empires in Singapore and Macao . Israelis like to gamble , and when the Hilton Taba casino opened in 1994 , only 200 meters from the Israeli border , gamblers crossed nightly from Eilat to Taba to place their bets . A lot of money that could have stayed in Israel ended up in Egypt . But before then and even afterward , several illegal and well - patronized casinos opened across Israel , but were short - lived due to police raids . The only legalized gambling in Israel is the Mifal Hapayis national lottery , which has increased the variety of games and prizes available to the public , and Toto sports gambling . Sheldon Adelson , who died three - and - a - half years ago , was a keen supporter of the Republican Party and one of its most generous bankrollers . Following his death , his wife Dr . Miriam Adelson was a little more reserved in her donations to the party but , according to media reports , is now throwing her financial weight behind Donald Trump , who during his presidency honored her with the Presidential Medal of Freedom . Recently , Miriam Adelson and her son - in - law Patrick Dumont acquired the majority shares in the Dallas Mavericks in order to give the Las Vegas Sands Corporation a foothold in the Lone Star State , where they hope to introduce casinos . Texas is very conservative about casino gambling , so Adelson and Dumont will have a hard row to hoe . She also poured a lot of money into the election campaign of Dade Phelan , which helped him to be reelected as speaker of the Texas House of Representatives . If she succeeds in opening a casino in Texas , Adelson may turn her attention to Israel , where she is the publisher of the free , informative tabloid Israel Hayom . She is also a generous benefactor to various Israeli causes . She and her husband gave Yad Vashem its largest - ever donations , and they did not skimp on other causes they supported . At a time when Israel is experiencing an economic disaster , Adelson & rsquo ; s fiscal assistance to the nation may help to swing legislation in favor of casinos . greerfc @ gmail . com