Mosab Hassan Yousef , the son of Hamas co - founder Sheikh Hassan Yousef , spoke out at the UN on Monday about the horrors perpetrated by Hamas . Yousef spoke about Hamas terror attacks , such as suicide bombings carried out against Israeli civilians , and the indoctrination of the population in Gaza & ndash ; especially children & ndash ; by the genocidal terrorist group that he was once intimately connected with .& ldquo ; Today I can speak on the authority of [ myself , having once been ] a Palestinian child , someone who grew up in that culture ," Youssef said .& ldquo ; We & rsquo ; re talking about a religious group that does not believe in political borders and wants to annihilate an entire race in order to build an Islamic state . I don ' t know what else can be said about this & ndash ; and I don ' t know why it is not obvious to everybody .& rdquo ; Yousef , who wrote a book titled Son of Hamas in 2010 , has rallied against the terror group since defecting in the 1990s . Yousef worked with Israeli counter - intelligence and helped the Mossad in various operations & ndash ; including incarcerating his own father , Hamas co - founder Sheikh Hassan Yousef ." Hamas ' first crime against children in the Palestinian societies is not arming them or encouraging them to carry suicide bombing attacks & ndash ; it ' s the religious ideological indoctrination that I had to go through with one intention in mind : to annihilate the State of Israel . This is Hamas ' s primary goal ," Yousef said .& nbsp ; As " a 10 - year - old child when I disobeyed Hamas , I was tied up to a post and I was whipped by a Hamas top leader . My father was in prison at that time and this leader thought that he was my mentor . This is Hamas discipline . This is how they wanted me to be ... to become a violent savage like them ," the defecting son said ." Son of Hamas " Youssef has long spoken publicly about his experiences growing up in the West Bank city of Ramallah as the son of Hassan Yousef , a co - founder of Hamas , being imprisoned , and becoming an informant and later advocate for Israel . He & rsquo ; s also spoken on behalf of media groups , such as his address at the 2019 Jerusalem Post Annual Conference , and for NGOs such as in his 2017 speech at a UN Human Rights Council debate for UN Watch . Youssef was also the subject of the 2014 documentary The Green Prince ." I am not a part of propaganda . I don ' t work for anybody . I only represent myself and on this authority I speak , so don ' t be mistaken and [ instead ] take my words very carefully ,& rdquo ; Youssef said in his remarks .& ldquo ; Hamas is committing a crime against this generation and the next generations to come , so blaming Israel is not going to solve the problem ." Sam Halpern contributed to this report .