Thousands of protesters gathered throughout Tel Aviv on Saturday evening , calling for the return of hostages held in Hamas captivity and demonstrating against the government , Israeli media reported . The protests took place in various locations in the city . Groups gathered outside the Tel Aviv Museum of Art at Hostages Square and blocked several streets , including the Kaplan interchange and Begin Road .& nbsp ; As protestors marched through the city , police blocked the roads leading to the Ayalon highway to prevent demonstrators from blocking it .& nbsp ; During the protest , demonstrators screened a movie titled " One Request ," which demanded that government leaders take action to return those held in Hamas captivity for almost 200 days . Protesters also called for immediate elections in the country .& nbsp ; The parents of US - Israeli citizen Itay Chen , an IDF soldier who was killed on October 7 and whose body is being held by Hamas , called for the government to approve a hostage deal immediately . Reflecting on the loss of their son , they said , " The country did not defend you or save you . It forsakes you every day ." The families of the hostages write a letter & nbsp ; Additionally , the families of the hostages sent a letter to the members of the security cabinet where they wrote , " We demand to hear directly from you . What are the priorities of the Israeli government after over half a year since the beginning of the war ? We no longer feel any military pressure . What are you doing to bring them back ?" The letter also called for government leaders to set up an official meeting with the families of the hostages . They criticized the fact that " many months have passed without an official meeting ."& nbsp ; Further protests demanding elections and hostage release also took place throughout the country . Opposition leader MK Yair Lapid spoke at the protest in Haifa ." This government is a disaster . For the sake of the hostages and soldiers we need elections now ," he said .& nbsp ;