Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is enraged because Egypt , Qatar and other parties chose to hold direct contacts on ways of preventing further escalation with Israel in the aftermath of the recent tensions in Jerusalem and the West Bank , a senior official with the ruling Fatah faction said . The official , who was not identified by name , told the London - based pan - Arab media outlet Al - Araby Al - Jadeed that Abbas & ldquo ; did not hide his anger & rdquo ; over being sidelined during the mediation efforts with his rivals in Hamas .& ldquo ; These efforts show that President Abbas is no longer the only party that Arabs turn to when talking about the escalation in al - Aqsa Mosque and the West Bank ,& rdquo ; the official added . On Sunday , Abbas abruptly called off an emergency meeting of the Palestinian leadership that was supposed to discuss the rising tensions with Israel . The meeting was scheduled to take place in Ramallah on Sunday evening . Palestinian officials said that the PA leadership was called to discuss the implementation of a resolution by the Palestinian Central Council ( PCC ) to terminate all signed agreements with Israel , halt security coordination and suspend PLO recognition of Israel until the Israeli government recognizes a Palestinian state on the pre - 1967 lines , with east Jerusalem as its capital . The resolution was announced by the PCC in 2018 and again earlier this year during a meeting in Ramallah . Since the beginning of the tensions , Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh , who is based in Doha , Qatar , has been holding a series of contacts with Egypt , Qatar , the United Nations and other parties on ways of averting an all - out confrontation with Israel . Haniyeh was in touch with senior Egyptian intelligence officials , Qatari ruler Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al - Thani and his foreign minister , and the UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process Tor Wennesland . The Hamas leader also contacted Arab League Secretary - General Ahmed Aboul Gheit and Oman & rsquo ; s Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Albusaidi . On Saturday , reports surfaced in a number of Arab media outlets concerning a truce agreement that has been reached between the Gaza - based terrorist groups and Israel . The reports created the impression that Abbas and the PA were no longer seen as relevant and influential players . In addition , the reports implied that the Hamas leadership was the only address for restoring calm . Following the news about the truce deal , the PA leadership issued a statement in which it said that Abbas and the Palestinian leadership & ldquo ; continue their actions at the international level , including sending messages and making contacts with a number of world leaders and international organizations .& rdquo ; According to the statement , & ldquo ; These contacts aim to brief world leaders and international organizations on the dangerous situation that the Palestinian territories are going through , including incursions into cities , camps and villages , especially what is happening in Jerusalem .& rdquo ; The statement was clearly intended to show that Abbas and the PA leadership were not sitting on the fence while several countries and parties were negotiating with Hamas . A PA official insisted on Monday that the Ramallah - based leadership was & ldquo ; directly involved & rdquo ; in all the contacts with international parties over the past few days .& ldquo ; The Egyptians and Qataris know that the Palestinian leadership is the only address ,& rdquo ; the official told The Jerusalem Post . & ldquo ; Any attempt to sideline President Abbas and the legitimate leadership of the Palestinian people won & rsquo ; t succeed .& rdquo ; The official pointed out that Abbas and Jordan & rsquo ; s King Abdullah discussed the latest developments in the Palestinian arena during a phone conversation on Monday . Abbas also held similar discussions with Russian President Vladimir Putin , the emir of Qatar and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan , he said . But a Fatah official told the Hamas - affiliated Shehab news website that Abbas & rsquo ; s insistence on maintaining tight and exclusive control of the decision - making process has created a crisis in the PA . The official claimed that Abbas was only consulting with his confidant , senior PLO and Fatah official Hussein al - Sheikh , as well as the commanders of the PA security forces . The unnamed official also said that Abbas was outraged with the Arab and foreign mediators for ignoring him and talking directly to Hamas . Abbas & rsquo ; s decision to call off the planned meeting of the Palestinian leadership raised eyebrows and drew sharp criticism from many Palestinians . It was unclear , however , if the decision was the result of Abbas & rsquo ; s reported frustration with the mediators for allegedly sidelining him .