Two people were lightly injured in a stabbing attack at the Modi ' in West Junction near Modi ' in on Thursday evening . Five other people were lightly injured by pepper spray at the scene . The terrorist was shot and killed by a police officer who was present at the scene . Israel Police have opened an investigation into the incident . The terrorist exited a car at the junction and began opening the doors of vehicles in order to stab drivers , injuring two men . The terrorist also sprayed pepper spray at nearby drivers . Israel Police chief Kobi Shabtai arrived at the scene on Thursday night . According to police , the terrorist was 22 - years - old and from the area near Ramallah . Site of stabbing attack near Modi ' in , September 22 , 2022 ( Credit : Israel Police ) Terrorist attacks in the Modiin area are relatively rare . The last attack in the area was in 2019 when a Palestinian terrorist stabbed a 22 - year - old woman at the Maccabim Junction near Modiin . Attack comes amid wave of terrorismThe attack comes amid a wave of terrorist attacks and attempted terrorist attacks in Israel and the West Bank in recent weeks . Earlier this month , a Palestinian was caught by police in Jaffa carrying a firearm and pipe bombs that he intended to use in a mass terrorist attack in Tel Aviv . As security forces increase their alert level , an extra battalion of Golani forces will be immediately deployed to the northern West Bank in the face of a rise in shooting attacks in the area by Palestinian gunmen . On Tuesday , shots were fired toward Border Police at the Salem Base along the Seam Line and toward soldiers near the Seam Line near Faqqu ' a in the northern West Bank . No injuries were reported in either incident . Hamas spokesperson Dr . Abdel Latif al - Qanou responded to the attack near Modi ' in on Thursday night , stating " The heroic stabbing operation is a message that the resistance continues and that the crimes of the occupation and the expected incursions will not be met except by heroic operations and resistance ."