Transportation Minister Miri Regev , who is in charge of the array of upcoming state ceremonies commemorating Remembrance Day and Independence Day , held a briefing on Thursday regarding the 76th torch - lighting ceremony , and said that during the ceremony , 12 commemorative torches will be lit , with the October 7 attacks at the center of the ceremony .& nbsp ; Regev detailed the changes that were made for this year ' s ceremony , including the fact that the torches will be lit by groups and not by individuals . According to the minister , there will be no fireworks at this year ' s ceremony and the artistic section will be adapted to accommodate the event . The ceremonial section will be reduced , and during the ceremony , references to fighting in the north and south , the hostages , the evacuees , the wounded , the disabled , and the reservists , and the security and rescue forces will be incorporated . The aforementioned ceremony will be filmed in advance and will take place without an audience , following consultations with security personnel .& nbsp ;" This year there will be no celebrations like last year . It ' s hard for us to celebrate during a war and when there are 133 hostages still in Hamas captivity ," Regev said .& nbsp ; Uncertainty of war influences ceremony & nbsp ;" The task of choosing torch lighters from thousands of recommendations is impossible . This year , the torches will be lit in groups ." She also announced that " the ceremony will be held on video , without an audience , because the war is in progress and we don ' t know how the different fronts will develop ."" We don ' t know what will happen in Gaza , what will happen in Rafah , how it will develop in the north , and in light of that , I want to ensure that the ceremony will take place because there is no question that the ceremony should take place like every year ," said Regev and added : " I made a decision that the right thing to do is not to cancel the ceremony , and rather film it without an audience ." Regev clarified that she will ask Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to deliver a short recorded speech at the torch - lighting ceremony , noting " The length and scope of the video depends on reality . It is important to have a video of the Prime Minister speaking of the current reality ..." According to Regev , this is anchored in the regulations of the ceremony .