Alternate Prime Minister Benny Gantz ( Blue and White ) said he hoped to speak soon with Palestinians even though he did not believe that it was possible at this time to finalize a peace deal with the Palestinian Authority .

& ldquo ; I hope I can meet with the Palestinians in the near future ,& rdquo ; said Gantz who is also the defense minister .

There has not been a meeting between an Israeli defense minister and or prime minister in years . Talks between Israel and the PA broke down in 2014 and have never been revived .

But Gantz hinted at the possibility of a meeting with the Palestinians when he spoke Thursday night at a special virtual Zoom gathering for Jews who live in Latin America to mark the eighth day of Hanukkah , which was sponsored by both the Jewish Agency and the Strategic Affairs Ministry .

It was important to advance normalization with the Palestinians , Gantz said , even if , & ldquo ; it is very hard at this stage to arrive at a final status agreement .& rdquo ;

Gantz clarified his position on a number of issues relating to the conflict , noting that he did & ldquo ; We will not withdraw to the pre - 1967 lines .& rdquo ; With respect to Jerusalem he quoted from the Psalms , stating that Israel would not give up on the idea of & ldquo ; Jerusalem , a city that is knitted together .& rdquo ;

In the West Bank , he said , it is important to build only on state land and not to build settler homes on private Palestinian land .

In response to a question about the continued leadership of PA President Mahmoud Abbas , Gantz said that there was not a replacement for him currently .

Gantz lauded Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu & rsquo ; s leadership with respect to the ratification of two normalization deals with the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain as well as the declarations of three additional deals with Sudan , Morocco and Bhutan .

It is important to continue to work with Netanyahu to continue to advance these deals and to expand this circle to include normalization deals with other countries , such as Saudi Arabia .

It is also important to normalize ties with the PA , he said , noting that relations between the Palestinians and Israel had improved . Security ties between Israel and the PA have resumed and the PA has agreed to accept tax revenues Israel had collected on its behalf .

He spoke warmly about both US President Donald Trump and US President - elect Joe Biden , noting that US Israel ties were strong no matter what administration was in Washington .

Among the participants were Jewish Agency chairman Issac Herzog , along with Diaspora Affairs Minister Omer Yankelevitch and Minister in the Defense Ministry Michael Biton , both from the Blue and White Party .