President Biden spoke with the " big four " leaders on a call Sunday to discuss Iran ' s unprecedented attack against Israel , according to White House pool reports .& nbsp ; On the call , Biden discussed the urgent need to pass the national supplemental as soon as possible on a call Sunday , Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer ( D - NY ), Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell ( R - KY ), Speaker of the House Mike Johnson ( R - LA ), and House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries ( D - NY ). The only aid package for Israel that will get to President Joe Biden ' s desk is the Senate - passed supplemental bill which includes military aid for Ukraine , Taiwan and Israel and also humanitarian aid for Gaza , Ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Sen . Gregory Meeks ( D - NY ) said Sunday morning on MSNBC .& nbsp ; Meeks reiterated Biden ' s stance that US defensive support for Israel is " ironclad ." On Saturday night as US forces intercepted Iranian missiles and UAVs targeting Israel , House Republican leader Rep . Steve Scalise ( LA ) said this week ' s legislative schedule will be changed to bring forward legislation to support Israel .& nbsp ; Details of this coming week ' s legislative changes have yet to be announced as of Sunday morning .& nbsp ; In early November , the Republican - led House passed a plan to provide $ 14 . 3 billion in aid to Israel and cut funding to the ternal Revenue Service . But because it combined aid for Israel with a cut to the Internal Revenue Service and left out aid for Ukraine , President Joe Biden promised a veto and Senator Chuck Schumer , majority leader of the Democratic - controlled Senate , said he would not bring it up for a vote . Senate supplemental billIn February , the Democratic - led Senate passed its supplemental bill which would give $ 60 . 06 billion in aid for Ukraine , $ 14 . 1 billion to Israel , $ 2 . 44 billion for operations in the Red Sea and almost $ 4 . 82 for partners in the Indo - Pacific to deter aggression by China .& nbsp ; The Senate bill would also provide $ 9 . 15 billion in humanitarian assistance for civilians in Gaza , the West Bank , Ukraine and other populations in conflict zones around the globe .& nbsp ;" The Administration strongly encourages both chambers of the Congress to reject this political ploy and instead quickly send the bipartisan Emergency National Security Supplemental Appropriations Act to the President & rsquo ; s desk ," the White House Office of Management and Budget said in a statement in February .& nbsp ; Former President Donald Trump is the leading Republican voice opposed to sending additional funding to Ukraine . Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson , a close Trump ally , declined to allow a House vote on the Senate supplemental bill for months . Johnson met with Trump on Friday in Florida , fueling speculation about whether Trump will clear a vote on Biden ' s national security spending request .& nbsp ; However , not every Republican is siding with Trump .& nbsp ; McCaul on Ukraine and IsraelIn an interview Sunday morning on CBS ' Face the Nation , House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Michael McCaul ( R - TX ) said he will be speaking with Johnson on Sunday night about the dire situation in Ukraine .& nbsp ; McCaul said an option for Israel ' s response to Saturday night ' s attacks would be to take out the facilities where Iranian drones or rockets come from , and also destroy the manufacturing facilities that build them .& nbsp ; Not just for Israel ' s sake , McCaul said , but also for Ukraine because the rockets and drones are being bought by Russia and are used to kill Ukrainians .& nbsp ; What happened in Israel on Saturday night happens in Ukraine every night , McCaul said .& nbsp ; McCaul told CBS ' Margaret Brennan that he needs to educate his House colleagues on how Israel , Ukraine and the Indo - Pacific are all tied together .& nbsp ;" Iran is selling this stuff to Russia . Guess who ' s buying Iran ' s energy ? China ," McCaul said , which is happening because the Biden administration lifted sanctions on Iran and helped fund their terror operations , he added .& nbsp ; McCaul said he ' s an " eternal optimist " and is doing his part . He said in World War II the US didn ' t choose its enemies , it went after Japan , Italy and Germany all together .& nbsp ;" We just can ' t pick and say Iran is bad , Russia is okay and China is bad . They ' re all in this together ," McCaul said , " And it ' s very clear to those of us in the intelligence national security community ."