An Israeli citizen in his 60s who entered Kalkilya on Saturday morning with his car was shot dead by local residents , according to Palestinian reports cited by Israeli media . IDF closed the entrances to Kalkilya following the murder and have begun vehicle checks and arrests . According to a security source , the shooting was a terrorist attack , Kan News later reported Saturday evening . It was later announced that Amnon Mokhtar , from Petach Tikva , is the Israeli who was murdered , Israeli media reported .& nbsp ; A large number of IDF troops entered the city after an Israeli citizen who had entered the city center with his vehicle was shot at around seven on Saturday morning . The shooting was carried out on the main street , after which his vehicle was were set on fire . About an hour ago , the victim was brought by a medical team of the Red Crescent to the entrance to the city . An IDF medical team pronounced the victim dead . Photos from the scene show his car being set on fire and his driver ' s license being taken . Local Palestinians told Israeli media the car was torched well after the shooting . The man was apparently known to local merchants , from whom he would buy vegetables on a regular basis . A bag of vegetables was found in the man ' s car , according to Israeli media . Kalkilya hotspotThis is the third event in Kalkilya in the last 48 hours . On Thursday , an Israeli in his 70s was robbed and attacked . The paramedic team met him at the Eliyahu checkpoint , where he was pronounced dead . On Friday afternoon , two Islamic Jihad operatives , who were on their way to carry out a terror attack against Israelis , were eliminated by the IDF in Kalkilya . The operation was carried out after the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) gathered intelligence that the two intended to carry out an attack soon . As a result , the soldiers of the police ' s Gideon unit were rushed to the area . After identifying the two , they started an arrest procedure , at the end of which they fired at the two terrorists .