Minister - without - Portfolio Benny Gantz resigned on Sunday from the emergency government in a move that will not collapse the coalition but that leaves Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu more dependent on his far Right partners .& ldquo ; Netanyahu is preventing us from moving forward to a real victory ,& rdquo ; said Gantz in a press conference designed for the prime - time news hour . & ldquo ; And so today , we are leaving the emergency government with a heavy heart & ndash ; but with our whole heart .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Fateful , strategic decisions are met with hesitance and procrastination due to political considerations ,& rdquo ; Gantz added in criticism of the current government & rsquo ; s recent behavior . He called for elections to be held in the fall , urging Netanyahu to set an agreed - upon date for them to occur . The departure of his National Unity Party , which had entered the government at the start of the war purely due to the emergency nature of the government , is set to impact the small war cabinet of which he and the number two in his party , former IDF chief - of - staff Lt .- Gen . Gadi Eisenkot , were members . Gantz calls for electionsThe war will continue for years , said Gantz , telling Israelis that he & ldquo ; will not promise [ them ] a quick and easy victory . You deserve more than empty promises . But Israel should and must achieve real victory .& rdquo ; Their departure comes as Netanyahu has given a nod to a three - phase hostage deal , which Gantz supports but which coalition factions Otzma Yehudit and the Religious Zionist Party oppose . Both of these parties , notably , make up 14 out of the 64 seats that the coalition is comprised of . Gantz expressed his support for the hostage deal presented by US President Joe Biden while urging Netanyahu to stand behind it . I & ldquo ; demand that the prime minister show the necessary courage to stand behind it and do everything to move it forward ,& rdquo ; he stated . In an apology to the families of the hostages , Gantz said , & ldquo ; We did a lot & ndash ; but we failed the test . We have not managed to bring many of the hostages home . The responsibility is mine as well .& rdquo ; He also called for the formation of a national probe to & ldquo ; examine the failures from within and protect from hypocritical attacks from without .& rdquo ; Gantz praised Defense Minister Yoav Gallant , calling him a brave and determined leader , and telling him that now is the time not only to say what is right , but & ldquo ; to do what is right .& rdquo ; Netanyahu responded to the announcement saying , & ldquo ; Israel is in an existential war on several fronts . Benny , now is not the time to abandon the fight , it is the time to combine forces .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Citizens of Israel , we will keep fighting until victory and until the achievement of all of the goals of the war , first of which is to free all of our hostages and to eliminate Hamas ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu proclaimed .& ldquo ; My door will stay open to any Zionist party that is willing to share the burden and help bring victory over our enemies and ensure the safety of our citizens ,& rdquo ; he stressed . Further , Eisenkot addressed Netanyahu in his resignation letter , which was submitted on Sunday .& ldquo ; Despite my many efforts , alongside my colleagues & rsquo ;, the cabinet led by you has , for a while , avoided making real decisions that are needed to achieve the goals of the war and improve Israel & rsquo ; s strategic stance ,& rdquo ; he said . National Security Minister and Otzma Yehudit head Itamar Ben - Gvir immediately demanded to be added to the war cabinet . & ldquo ; It is time to make brave decisions , to get real deterrence , and to bring security to the South , the North , and all of Israel ,& rdquo ; he said . Finance Minister and & nbsp ; Religious Zionist Party leader Bezalel Smotrich criticized the move , saying that it was the wrong one to make in the midst of war . & ldquo ; Benny , when you began to share the burden eight months ago , you did a brave and correct thing ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; Understanding the importance [ of the need of the hour and ] despite [ our ] differences , I agreed to step aside and be left out of managing the war . Since then , I have backed up a number of decisions that I really do not agree with simply because unity is vital to victory ,& rdquo ; Smotrich added . He went on to call on all Zionist party heads to join a unity government & ldquo ; until victory .& rdquo ; Opposition leader Yair Lapid praised the decision saying , & ldquo ; Benny Gantz and Gadi Eisenkot & rsquo ; s decision to leave the government is both justified and important .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s time to replace this extremist and failing government with a government that will restore security for the people of Israel , bring the hostages home , rebuild the economy , and restore Israel & rsquo ; s international standing ,& rdquo ; he said . Gantz had announced on May 18 that his party would leave the government on June 8 if Netanyahu did not adopt six objectives : Returning the hostages ; demolishing Hamas and demilitarizing the Gaza Strip ; providing a governing alternative in Gaza ; returning residents of the North to their homes by September 1 and rehabilitating the western Negev ; promoting normalization with Saudi Arabia ; and adopting an outline for standardized national service , in which all Israelis will serve their country . National Unity goes on the offensiveMembers of Gantz & rsquo ; s party took steps last week to oppose the government . MK Orit Farkash - Hacohen put forward a bill to form a national committee of inquiry on the events leading up to and during Oct . 7 and on what has transpired since . In addition , MK Pnina Tamano - Shata put forward a bill to disperse the Knesset , which would lead to an election . Eliav Breuer and Jerusalem Post Staff contributed to this report .