Nothing can replace direct negotiations between the two parties in attempts to resolve the Israeli - Palestinian conflict , Israel @@@ s Ambassador to the United Kingdom Tzipi Hotovely said on Monday .

For the second time in less than a week Hotovely was participating in a panel discussion with her counterparts from the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain Mansoor Abulhoul and Shaikh Fawaz bin Mohammed Al Khalifa .

The event organized by the Middle East and North African Forum at Cambridge University , was moderated by Sir John Jenkins , whose numerous diplomatic appointments include ambassadorships in Libya , Syria , Iraq and Saudi Arabia . He also served as consul general in Jerusalem and early in his career saw service in Abu Dhabi and Kuwait & ndash ; all of which make him an expert on the Middle East .

After the & nbsp ; three ambassadors had discussed the importance of the Abraham Accords in terms of enhanced people to people contact in all areas and at all levels , Jenkins asked about the future of the Palestinians in view of the fact that they had objected to the Abraham Accords .

Hotovely replied that it was up to the Palestinians to decide where they want to be . 

& quot ; We respect international actors ,& quot ; she said , & quot ; but they cannot replace both sides .& quot ; 

She was adamant that only direct negotiations can lead to an end to the conflict , and repeated this when asked about the relevance of the United Nations in the Middle East , saying that the UN cannot replace the dynamic between the countries in the region . & quot ; It cannot replace direct contact .& quot ;

Al Khalifa said that the Palestinian issue was not so close to the Gulf states . Peace had been offered to the Palestinians many times , he commented , & quot ; and they didn @@@ t take it .& quot ;

The Abraham Accords were not a substitute for restarting Palestinian and Israeli negotiations , said Abulhoul . & quot ; It must be something between the Palestinians and the Israelis themselves .& quot ; But he acknowledged that as a result of the relationship between the UAE and Israel , the UAE will be in a better position to help the Palestinians .

Hotovely was evasive as to whether there will eventually be a Palestinian state , but made it clear that no matter what , Jerusalem will remain united . She also suggested that more thought be given to new negotiating formulas .