
Iron Dome always had a weakness .


It shot down 85 %- 90 % of Hamas rockets in past rounds of battle & ndash ; and that was out of the ones which were projected to land in populated areas .


As long as the volume of rockets Hamas could shoot in a single salvo was small , this was almost a hermetic defense .


But Israeli intelligence and national security officials had long warned that Hezbollah had a sufficient number of rockets to pound the Jewish state with over 1 , 000 rockets in a day , an amount that could pierce the Iron Dome shield .


This was one reason the IDF has been so careful when it came to Hezbollah .


The terror group has 150 , 000 or more rockets , including hundreds of advanced ones , which means that 1 , 000 per day wouldn & rsquo ; t even dent its arsenal .


Has Hamas now found its own way to undermine Iron Dome ?


During the 2014 Gaza War , Hamas fired almost 4 , 000 rockets , but that was spread out over 50 days . It usually fired dozens of rockets in a day at most , and spread them out over the day . Its high was around 200 rockets spread over a whole day & ndash ; and out of the 50 days of the war , it fired more than 100 rockets per day for only around two weeks .


Also , the vast majority of these rockets were fired at the Gaza corridor since Hamas had a limited number of rockets capable of reaching Tel Aviv and other areas .


For more on rocket attacks against Israel & nbsp ; read here



For more on Israeli strikes on Gaza & nbsp ; read here


For more on live rocket attack updates & nbsp ; read here

For more on riots in Israel & nbsp ; read here

For more on world reactions to Gaza violence & nbsp ; read here

& nbsp ;

But on Tuesday and Wednesday morning , Hamas appeared to succeed in firing more than 100 rockets within minutes , including a sizable number focused on Tel Aviv .


This is a jump both in the number of rockets being used against Tel Aviv , and in the terrorist group & rsquo ; s ability to fire a high volume of rockets simultaneously .


This is an ability that Hezbollah was known to have , but was thought to be some time away still for Hamas .


DOES THIS mean the Iron Dome is no longer effective ? No .


It still intercepts the majority of rockets fired at Israeli population centers although some are getting through . The bigger question is whether Israeli intelligence estimates are correct that Hamas has only a few hundred missiles which can reach Tel Aviv .


If those estimates are accurate , then Hamas may have used up a large chunk of that arsenal , even if it has thousands more which can hit Beersheba , Ashdod and communities near the Gaza border .


But if Hamas has more of those longer - range rockets , this could impact Israel & rsquo ; s plans for this round of violence and especially the question of how long it wants it to last .


If Hamas can pierce the missile shield with 100 rockets in a few minutes twice in one day , how much more damage can Hezbollah and Iran do with the longer , larger and more accurate missiles it possesses ?


Israeli decision - makers and military strategists will need to take this into account in deciding how long this can go on for and how quickly they will need to either escalate with a ground offensive to reduce Hamas rocket fire ( clearly the IDF & rsquo ; s extensive bombing on Tuesday did not succeed in that sufficiently ) or to find its way to a ceasefire more quickly and make new plans for the next round .


The IDF will also need to rethink the speed with which it will need to move in a conflict with Hezbollah , let alone Iran .
