A majority of Israelis would like to see Prime Minister Naftali Bennett reignite the Israeli - Palestinian peace process by meeting with PA president Mahmoud Abbas , according to a December poll by the Geneva Initiative .
Amongst 504 responders , 51 % would support a potential meeting between the prime minister and Abbas , while 39 % would oppose such a meeting .
Interestingly , 40 % of Bennett ' s right - wing party Yamina ' s voters also support a Bennett - Abbas meeting .& nbsp ;
In addition , 43 % of responders noted that a move towards peace with the Palestinians would broaden support for the Bennett - Lapid government among Israelis . In contrast , 37 % said it would decrease support .
If a meeting between Abbas and Bennett was to happen , the prime minister would not be the first in the current government to meet the PA president . In August , Defense Minister Benny Gantz held a rare meeting with Abbas in Ramallah .
Unsurprisingly , a large share of voters affiliated with more left - leaning parties , such as Labor , Yesh Atid and Gantz ' s Blue and White , stated they would support the government if such a move was made .

Responders were also asked about the handling of terrorist organization Hamas , the Palestinian public and Donald Trump ' s comments on Netanyahu .
Almost half of responders ( 49 %) stated they support a transparent , open approach to a dialog with Hamas , while 40 % stated they oppose any dialog .& nbsp ;
Out of the responders who support talks , 57 % of responders stated that dialog with Hamas would be beneficial to gain insight on the Palestinian public , while 43 % disagreed with that statement .
Lastly , two - thirds of responders ( 67 %) stated they agree that opposition head Benjamin Netanyahu " never wanted to make peace ," as stated by former US president Trump .
The poll was ordered by Geneva Initiative , an Israeli NGO dedicated to solving the Israeli - Palestinian conflict , and conducted by Mano Geva ' s market research company Midgam .