Former vice president Mike Pence told The Jerusalem Post on Wednesday that the US is obligated to allow Israel to defeat Hamas . Pence spoke to the Post ahead of its annual conference in New York City on Monday . Pence told the Post on Wednesday that & ldquo ; the only message to our most cherished ally in this dire hour should be , & lsquo ; America stands with Israel .& rsquo ;"& ldquo ; On October 7 , the Jewish people endured the deadliest attack since the Holocaust . The United States must give them our full support until Hamas has been destroyed once and for all ,& rdquo ; he stated . Pence has maintained a strong relationship with Israel both before and after his tenure as Republican vice president . He continuously conveys a deep commitment to the US - Israel alliance via actions and statements . As vice president from 2017 to 2021 , Pence was a key figure in the Trump administration & rsquo ; s pro - Israel policies , which included relocating the US embassy to Jerusalem and recognizing Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights . He also frequently emphasized the importance of the US - Israel relationship in his speeches and public appearances . Pence ' s visit to IsraelAfter the Hamas attack on Israel on October 7 , Pence visited Israel in January to show solidarity . He met with soldiers and families affected by the attacks , stating , & ldquo ; The American people are with you ,& rdquo ; and emphasizing that the US will continue to support Israel until the threat from Hamas is eradicated . Further , he compared Israel & rsquo ; s situation to the US after 9 / 11 , insisting that Israel deserved the same unwavering support that the US received after those terrorist attacks . Pence has also been vocal regarding efforts to limit Israel & rsquo ; s military actions against Hamas by criticizing these attempts . He voiced his opposition to President Joe Biden & rsquo ; s approach , asserting that Israel & rsquo ; s actions should not be questioned , much like the US & rsquo ; s post - 9 / 11 decisions should not have been . Moreover , Pence has expressed concern over rising antisemitism and pro - Palestinian protests in the US , reaffirming that & ldquo ; Israel & rsquo ; s cause is our cause .& rdquo ; Pence & rsquo ; s commitment to Israel was also evident when he suspended his presidential campaign at the Republican Jewish Coalition & rsquo ; s Annual Leadership Summit in October 2023 . He did so to highlight that he was against what he warned was a rise of populism in the Republican Party , in which he also emphasized the need for a robust foreign policy that supported Israel . The conference , which will take place on June 3 in New York , promises to be of paramount importance , especially given the ongoing Israel - Hamas war and the broader turmoil in the Middle East . This year & rsquo ; s gathering is expected to attract diplomats , politicians & ndash ; including Pence & ndash ; and business leaders , among others .& ldquo ; The theme chosen for this year & rsquo ; s conference , following the October 7 massacre , is : & lsquo ; Israel Says Thank You ,& rsquo ;& rdquo ; said Zvika Klein , the Post & rsquo ; s Editor - in - Chief . He added that in recent months , & ldquo ; tens of millions of readers have been visiting The Jerusalem Post website monthly to stay informed about what is happening in Israel during the most challenging period we have known since the establishment of the Jewish state .& rdquo ; Regarding the conference , he said , & ldquo ; We are excited to return to New York to meet our loyal readers and to engage in a genuine and honest conversation about the incredibly complex reality in Israel and the US over the past year .& rdquo ; The event will feature strategic meetings , allowing attendees to network and share ideas with key figures in the Jewish world . CEO Inbar Ashkenazi highlighted this , saying that the Post & ldquo ; is far more than just a media group . We are the gateway between Israel and the world .& rdquo ; The conference will be live - streamed on the Post & rsquo ; s website and social media channels , enabling a global audience to participate in these critical conversations . Last year & rsquo ; s event attracted over 1 . 6 million online views and featured prominent Israeli politicians , including Chairman of the National Unity Party Benny Gantz and Economy and Industry Minister Nir Barkat .