Everything about the movie June Zero , which opened in theaters throughout Israel on May 2 , is unusual . This includes the fact that the director and co - writer of this quintessentially Israel movie , which tells several stories connected to the building of the oven that was used to cremate Adolf Eichmann after his execution in 1962 , is an American : Jake Paltrow , and yes , he & rsquo ; s Gwyneth & rsquo ; s brother . Paltrow has made several previous films , including the excellent 2007 The Good Night , about a man who wants to achieve in his dreams what he couldn & rsquo ; t accomplish while awake , starring Gwyneth Paltrow , Penelope Cruz , Danny DeVito , and Martin Freeman . Paltrow , whose late father , the director , Bruce Paltrow , was Jewish , became interested in the stories surrounding the Eichmann trial , especially concerning the fate of Eichmann & rsquo ; s body , and began researching them in detail . Deciding that for the sake of authenticity , any movie about this topic would have to be in Hebrew and needed a screenwriter who was an Israeli native , he brought on director Tom Shoval , who made the movies Youth and Shake Your Cares Away , to collaborate with him on the screenplay . June Zero presents three stories that are connected thematically and create a vivid portrait of the diversity of life in Israel in the early & rsquo ; 60s . We know that Eichmann , the notorious Nazi commander who was responsible for implementing the Final Solution and causing the deaths of millions of Jews , was hanged outside a Ramla prison on June 1 , 1962 .& nbsp ; However , people forget that he spent about two years in Israel , as investigators interrogated him before the trial , during his trial , and in the period of appeals that followed the trial . There was a great fear on the part of the government & ndash ; a justified fear & ndash ; that a concentration camp survivor might assassinate him as revenge for the murders of their families . Since the vast majority of Holocaust victims were Ashkenazim , only Mizrahi police were allowed to guard Eichmann , and the movie focuses on Haim ( Yoav Levi ), his Moroccan - born main guard .& nbsp ; We hear Eichmann speak and see his feet and other parts of his body & ndash ; such as his neck , in a harrowing scene when he is getting his hair cut and Haim worries that the barber will try to slit his throat & ndash ; but he is not a character in the film . Instead , we identify with Haim who faithfully carries out the bizarre task of ensuring that no harm comes to one of the most notorious war criminals in history . Other stories portrayed in the filmANOTHER STORY features David ( Noam Ovadia ), a mischievous 13 - year - old immigrant from Libya , who has been sent to work part - time in a factory run by a gruff owner ( Tzahi Grad ). This factory is given the assignment to build an oven for cremation , a method of body disposal not used in Israel since both Jewish and Muslim religious law prohibits its use . The idea was to cremate Eichmann & rsquo ; s body and scatter the ashes outside Israel & rsquo ; s territorial waters , so there would be no grave that could become a spot where pro - Nazis could make pilgrimages to . For the factory and its staff , it was a race against time to create this oven that is unlike anything they have ever made before , and they are aided by David & rsquo ; s boldness and by the thoroughness of a survivor ( Ami Smolarchik ), who struggles with his memories . The third section is set in Poland , as Micha ( Tom Hagy ), a young Holocaust survivor investigating Eichmann & rsquo ; s crimes , revisits the ghetto and other sites where he and his family suffered and tells his story to visitors from abroad . There he meets a representative ( Joy Rieger ) of an Israeli delegation and the two engage in debates over how best to commemorate the Holocaust . She is critical of dwelling too long on the details of what happened , while he feels it is his mission to tell his story to the world , and for all survivors to tell their stories . In a statement released by the producers , Paltrow , who visited Israel many times to research the movie , said that he felt that it was urgent to tell stories from the Holocaust to a younger generation around the world who may not understand what really happened and that he wanted to tell stories people had not heard before . & nbsp ;& ldquo ; What distinguishes this film from other Holocaust films is the examination of the subject through the most obvious physical and political consequence of the Holocaust : the State of Israel . Israel is not only a country where Holocaust survivors and their descendants live , but its diversity creates a rare mosaic of cultures and origins . The Eichmann trial was a turning point in the young country & rsquo ; s understanding of the atrocities committed by the Nazis in Europe .& rdquo ; While many films , both documentaries and dramas , have focused on the dramatic Eichmann trial in Jerusalem , Paltrow chose to start the movie after the end of the trial . & nbsp ;& ldquo ; Our film is intended to lay the foundations for understanding the complexities of Israel , from the aftermath of the Holocaust to today . This is not the story of the survival of a people in crisis , it is the story of the identity crisis of a people after survival . And throughout it there is also laughter , there is happiness , there is sadness and tears , conflict and drama ,& rdquo ; he said . Tom Shoval spoke warmly and appreciatively about collaborating with Paltrow on the screenplay . & nbsp ;& ldquo ; Jake got interested in everything connected to the Eichmann trial , it was a way for him to connect to his Jewish roots and identity , it & rsquo ; s something he & rsquo ; s spoken about a lot .& rdquo ; Paltrow became very interested in Israel in the early & rsquo ; 60s , Shoval said , and after he read an article about the building of the oven , he knew it would be the centerpiece of the film . PALTROW WAS visiting Israel to work on pre - production for the film when the COVID pandemic broke out , and he was stuck in Israel for a few weeks . He and Shoval used the time to fine - tune the script . Paltrow even filed paperwork to emigrate to Israel so that he could stay in the country to keep working .& ldquo ; It was a long journey , filled with unexpected turns ,& rdquo ; said Shoval . At first , they had planned the movie to be mainly about the building of the oven , but then they realized it needed to be a & ldquo ; panorama of Israeli stories of this period . This interested us and we found so many fascinating stories , we knew we needed to include them .& rdquo ; The decision to move outside of Israel and back to Poland to tell Micha & rsquo ; s story was also important in their writing process .& ldquo ; The movie is about memory and history , about what it is to bear witness to the past ... Before the Eichmann trial , it wasn & rsquo ; t acceptable for Holocaust survivors to tell their stories in public in Israel ... and it was at this moment when the survivors received a kind of validation of their experience . It was a turning point and we wanted to show a character who experiences this as part of the film .& rdquo ; The wealth of stories they discovered & ldquo ; made it possible for us to present a varied wide - ranging portrait of Israel , to show the Ashkenazim and the Mizrahim , the secular and religious , the Jews and the Arabs , the survivors and those who weren & rsquo ; t in the Holocaust , and how it all came together in this story ...& rdquo ; said Shoval .& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s a story that hasn & rsquo ; t been told before , and it was important to us to tell it .& rdquo ;