Contrary to most reports , Salim Joubran , who died on March 15 , was not the first Israeli - Arab Supreme Court justice when he was appointed in 2003 . Technically , that distinction goes to Abdel Rahman Zuabi , who received a temporary appointment as a Supreme Court justice in 1999 . However , Zuabi served for only nine months . Joubran served from 2003 to 2017 and finished with the rank of deputy chief justice , as well as being the first Israeli - Arab to chair the Central Elections Commission . In that sense , he was the father of the idea that a minimum of one seat should be an Israeli - Arab . Since then , his seat was filled by two other Israeli - Arabs . First George Karra , for a short term ; and now by Khaled Kabub . In that regard , Joubran convinced the Jews of Israel that the court & rsquo ; s identity must somewhat reflect the country & rsquo ; s multi - religious nature , and convinced the Arabs of Israel that partnering with Israeli society can be worth it and have real results . Not everything was perfect . There was an incident in 2012 when Joubran came under attack by many in the political sphere when he stood for the singing of & ldquo ; Hatikvah & rdquo ; during a state ceremony , but he clearly did not sing the words . Ultimately , Joubran weathered the storm , with many mainstream political and judicial officials pointing out that as long as he stood and conveyed respect , that neither he , nor Israeli - Arab soldiers , could be expected to sing about Jewish longing to return to their homeland . Orthodox former deputy chief justice Elyakim Rubinstein was one of those who publicly came to Joubran & rsquo ; s defense at the time , and he eulogized Joubran last week as one of his close friends in the court . Most of the time , though , Joubran managed to stay out of and above politics . He represented Israel around the world and served as one of its brightest lights in embodying Israeli multicultural coexistence . Whenever critics tried to tear Israel down as discriminating against Arabs , the example of Joubran could be rolled out as a stark contrast to that narrative . Joubran was involved in a myriad of historic decisions . He was on the panel of three justices who rejected the appeal of former president Moshe Katsav , sending him to prison for seven years for rape and sexual abuse . Likewise , he was on the bench of five justices who rejected part of the appeal of former prime minister Ehud Olmert , sending him to jail for two plus years on various charges of public corruption . Ever the independent thinker , Joubran was the one dissenting vote on the Olmert panel when four justices tossed out the largest conviction for Olmert having allegedly requested that a middle man give NIS 500 , 000 to the former prime minister & rsquo ; s brother , Yossi Olmert . Had they listened to Joubran , Olmert would have spent many more years in prison . Regarding equality issues , he was a consistent and unabashedly liberal voice whether for Jews or for Arabs . He wrote soaring opinions about justice and fairness that even his conservative critics sometimes respected more than they respected quieter closet activists , who often ruled liberally but tried to frame themselves in technical non - activist terms . In his final case & ndash ; a 2017 ruling on same - sex couples & rsquo ; surrogacy rights & ndash ; Joubran said that he found it difficult to come to terms with a situation in which single people and same - sex couples were blocked from fulfilling their dreams to become parents through surrogacy agreements . He said he could not see the justice of giving preference to heterosexual parents over same - sex parents , though the court as a whole deferred the issue for six months to give the Knesset time to resolve legislation on the issue which it was already considering . In addition , Joubran advocated religious freedom and pluralism for Jews , often banging heads with the haredi rabbinic establishment . Regarding Israeli - Arab equality , he dissented in a major 2014 razor - thin 5 - 4 Supreme Court decision which kept a law in place that allowed & ldquo ; acceptance committees & rdquo ; to vet and reject candidates using vague criteria for around 434 yishuvim ( villages ) in the Negev and the Galilee . That law replaced an earlier law previously struck down by the Supreme Court which explicitly permitted discrimination against Israeli - Arabs in those villages . However , Joubran and three other dissenting justices said that the new law would be used to achieve the same outcome and impact as the old law of discriminating against Israeli - Arabs , and possibly sometimes against haredim or other minority groups . This was even if , at face value , the new law did not explicitly discriminate . The new brand of moderate - formalist activists allied with a growing group of conservatives to keep the law , but unapologetic liberals like Joubran could not stand a law which would likely cause inequality , even if there were technical reasons to avoid or delay striking the law until it played out more in the real world . In 2016 , in the High Court & rsquo ; s 4 - 1 decision , Joubran got to vote in the majority against justice Noam Sohlberg , invalidating a 10 - year price freeze and cap on legal liability rule that was part of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu & rsquo ; s natural gas policy . Joubran also voted 3 - 2 in the majority against Sohlberg and then - justice Esther Hayut to suspend the policy for a year while the government would adjust the price and liability issues . But in that same series of rulings , the Supreme Court affirmed virtually all of the many other aspects of the policy by a 4 - 1 majority , with only Joubran dissenting . This included empowering Netanyahu to override and circumvent objections of the antitrust authority on the grounds of national security . This was huge . The prime minister , acting as his own economy minister , could override the antitrust authority on a question of economics using national security as a reason . Joubran had no problem switching back to being in the minority on that issue to check what he regarded as executive power overreach . Critics would say that Joubran harmed the country & rsquo ; s economic development and imposed his own world view in place of the representative of the voters , Netanyahu . But Joubran viewed the court as the last line of defense of those in society who were weaker ; and if that meant protecting the antitrust authority in a way that slowed down economic development , he was at peace with that . Unlike other liberal justices , he was willing to say it out loud . I met Joubran a number of times at conferences and Supreme Court ceremonies , and I saw him in action countless times on the bench . There were some on the bench who struck me as having been promoted up through the ranks but basically remaining the same as they had always been , simply at a higher rung within the judiciary . Joubran seemed to hold himself differently and think in terms of his place and the court & rsquo ; s place in history , and trying to find the right side of history to be on without getting dragged down into the technicalities of the moment . Once again , conservatives would not like many of his rulings but would honor his honesty and the sense that he was a true believer and not just playing the politics of his sector of society . I also found him to be kind and a gentleman , with a lightness in an old - fashioned way that is hard to capture in the social media punchy age of 2024 . A graduate of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem , Joubran practiced private law from 1970 until 1982 before leaving to accept an appointment to the Haifa Magistrate & rsquo ; s Court . In 1993 , he was appointed to the Haifa District Court , and was then promoted to the Supreme Court in 2003 . At his retirement , he preached stronger commitment to coexistence and to integration of Israel & rsquo ; s Arab minority . In an age of unbridled partisanship and personal ambition , Joubran & rsquo ; s voice of being respectful , honest , and genuinely committed to the State of Israel , though his background could have given him every excuse to take an opposite path , will be missed .