The IDF demolished the home of the terrorist from Yabad , near Jenin , who killed five Israelis in a shooting attack in Bnei Brak on March 29 , Palestinian media reported . Residents began to riot , including throwing stones , burning tires , throwing firebombs at soldiers and shooting . IDF forces responded with live fire ,& nbsp ; and two Palestinians died in ensuing clashes . Initially , one Palestinian was killed and at least six others were injured by the live fire from Israeli forces , according to Palestinian reports . Palestinian media published a photo of the man ' s firearm after he was killed . The Palestinian Health Ministry then announced on Thursday morning that one of the wounded Palestinians , Bilal Kabha , eventually died as a result of his injuries . صور | آثار الدمار في منزل الشهيد ضياء حمارشة عقب تفجيره من قبل جيش الاحتلال في بلدة يعبد جنوب جنين . pic . twitter . com / x90AGZ8GDH & mdash ; حسن اصليح | Hassan (@ hassaneslayeh ) June 2 , 2022In May , the High Court of Justice rejected the petition of the family of the terrorist against the planned demolition of their home , although the ground floor will not be demolished since it was not proven that the terrorist lived there . The Bnei Brak attackYaakov Shalom , Rabbi Avishai Yehezkeli , Victor Sorokopot , Dimitri Mitrik and police officer Amir Khouri were murdered by Dia Hamarsheh in a shooting attack in Bnei Brak in late March .& nbsp ; Hamarsheh was jailed for six months in 2013 for dealing in illegal firearms and affiliation with a terrorist group , and had worked illegally at a construction site in the city . After a number of his relatives were arrested shortly after the attack , his father told KAN news that he " didn ' t notice anything unusual "& nbsp ; about his son & nbsp ; before the attack ." We are not to blame for this story ; what they ' re doing now is collective punishment ." Father of Bnei Brak terrorist Dia Hamarsheh " If I had seen a preliminary sign that he was going to carry out a terrorist attack , I would not have let him leave the house ,"& nbsp ; the terrorist ' s father said . " I would not let him think in that direction if I knew ; no one wants his son to die . We are not to blame for this story ; what they ' re doing now is collective punishment ." Clashes also broke out later Wednesday night in the Dahayshe refugee camp near Bethlehem , according to Palestinian reports .& nbsp ;