The High Court of Justice on Thursday night issued its sensational decision endorsing a universal IDF draft , including the ultra - Orthodox ( haredi ) population , bringing to a theoretical end weeks of squabbling and disagreements . From April 1 , although in reality deferring most enforcement of the ruling until August 9 , the decision largely accepted the recommendation of the Attorney - General & rsquo ; s Office on invoking a legal universal draft across Israel . As of Monday , some institutions or classes within institutions will already have their funds frozen , but on a larger scale , the freeze won & rsquo ; t take effect until August 9 . The High Court & rsquo ; s decision could also potentially destabilize Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu & rsquo ; s government if its two haredi parties , United Torah Judaism and Shas , decide to exit the government . Shas chairman MK Aryeh Deri lambasted the decision in a written statement . & ldquo ; The interim decision that the High Court of Justice gave to immediately halt the yeshiva funding is a mark of Cain and an unprecedented mistreatment of Torah students in the land of the Jews .& ldquo ; Shas will continue to fight for yeshiva students & rsquo ; right to persevere in Torah and will consider its next steps ,& rdquo ; Deri added . The Degel Hatorah faction in the United Torah Judaism party expressed outrage at the decision , warning that they would not let it pass without a response .& ldquo ; The High Court of Justice and the clerical system have decided on an all - out struggle against Torah scholars and Torah education , and they must prove to everyone that they & rsquo ; re in charge in this country , and they will also decide for us which coalition we will go to ,& rdquo ; said Degel Hatorah . This comes weeks after Israel & rsquo ; s Sefardi Chief Rabbi Yitzhak Yosef sparked controversy by threatening a mass haredi emigration from the country if the ultra - Orthodox were forced to join the army . " If they force us to join the army , we will all move abroad ," Yosef said . The High Court & rsquo ; s decision should be applauded as it theoretically brings to some form of closure an issue that has rankled Israeli society for many years . The landmark ruling reflects a principled stance towards ensuring that all citizens contribute to the defense of the nation , while also providing a transition period for adjustments to be made . High Court signals to Israel that no one is exempt from dutyIt sends a clear message that no individual or group should be exempt from their civic duties based on religious or cultural grounds . By endorsing a universal draft , the court has taken a bold step towards fostering a sense of unity and shared sacrifice among all sectors of Israeli society , at a time when the country needs it most . Demographically , the question of haredi enlistment will become even more urgent as the ultra - Orthodox become the dominant population in the country . While there are many more stops along the journey of universal enlistment in Israel & rsquo ; s military , the government , the judiciary , and those who are willing to serve , many of whom are religious themselves and Torah students , cannot let themselves be held to ransom by one sector of society that refuses to contribute to the ongoing survival of the country . Israel , unlike many countries around the world , desperately requires its military to survive . The country & rsquo ; s very existence depends upon its army , and the ongoing Israel - Hamas War proves how necessary it is . Netanyahu has managed to survive in power despite a tumultuous period , beginning last year with continuous protests against the government ' s planned judicial reform , an act that was halted when Hamas terrorists crossed the border on October 7 . He has since been dealing with the ongoing military operation in Gaza . It would be ironic if Bibi & rsquo ; s bedfellows in government , the ultra - Orthodox parties , were to do what the judicial protests nor the war against Hamas have done and bring the government toppling . The court & rsquo ; s ruling should serve as a catalyst for meaningful dialogue and engagement on the issue of military service instead of pathetic threats of emigration and political discord . It creates an opportunity for policymakers , religious leaders , and civil society stakeholders to come together and explore a peaceful solution to the national service question that Israel desperately needs to answer . Quite simply , Israel cannot keep kicking this particular can down the road any further .