Hundreds of supporters of Iranian - backed Iraqi paramilitary groups gathered on Friday at Iraq ' s main border crossing with Jordan to express solidarity with Gaza and call for an end to the blockade imposed by Israel . Some 800 supporters of Iraq ' s Popular Mobilisation Forces ( PMF ), an umbrella group of mainly Shi ' ite militia , departed from Baghdad late on Thursday in buses and arrived at the Iraqi - Jordanian border crossing in the early hours of Friday in the western Anbar province , which is the closest access point from Iraq to the West Bank . Amid heavy security presence at the crossing , protesters set up tents and staged a sit - in , demanding Israel lift its blockade on Gaza and allow aid to flow in . & ldquo ; No to Israel and normalization ,& rdquo ; protesters chanted while waving Palestinian flags . Israel returns fire against HamasIsrael has vowed to wipe out the Hamas terrorist group that rules Gaza , after its gunmen burst through the barrier fence surrounding the enclave on Oct . 7 and rampaged through Israeli towns and kibbutzes , killing 1 , 400 people , mainly civilians . Israel has pounded Gaza with air strikes and put the enclave ' s 2 . 3 million people under a total siege . Since Oct . 7 , at least 4 , 137 Palestinians have been killed and 13 , 000 wounded in Gaza in Israeli strikes since Oct . 7 , the Hamas - run health ministry said .& ldquo ; We are going to support our people in Palestine ,& rdquo ; said 26 - year - old Hussein Samir , as he sat in a bus just before leaving Baghdad late on Thursday .& ldquo ; We condemn them , and we will give them a period of time ; if they don & rsquo ; t lift the blockade , the resistance will begin , God willing , and the war against them ( Israel ) will begin ,& rdquo ; he added . On Thursday influential Iraqi cleric Muqtada al - Sadr called for a peaceful sit - in at the Palestinian borders in Syria , Lebanon , Egypt and Jordan until Israel lifts the blockade on the enclave and aid is delivered to people in Gaza . Sadr said protesters should only carry shrouds and not arms .& nbsp ;