El Al reportedly humiliated an Israeli - Bedouin police officer while he was on an Israel advocacy mission to the United Kingdom , according to Israeli media . Sgt .- Maj . Ramo Salman Huzeil , an investigator at the Segev Shalom police station , reluctantly became famous on October 7 . He was assigned to security at the Nova Music festival in the morning shift , arrived at the scene eight minutes before 6 : 30 am , then became a hero who took the initiative , organized an escape vehicle , and , while under fire , made dozens of rounds of the site of the festival massacre , saving hundreds of people , whom he moved to safety , only to return , again and again , saving more and more people . In the days that followed , the media wanted to interview him , and his story grabbed headlines in Israel and worldwide . Following his heroism and the publicity he received , he was sent to London about two weeks ago as part of an awareness campaign for the State of Israel to gather support for the call to release the hostages . The initiative was part of the & ldquo ; Israel is & rdquo ; Association , which has set itself the goal of & ldquo ; creating high - quality , genuine , and universal meetings & rdquo ; between Israelis and young people worldwide . Israel advocacy campaignHuzeil , whose career in the Israel Police made him an even more fitting ambassador for the country , was very proud of his role . However , according to him , his elation upon returning from this mission was cut short by hostility when he received what he claimed was a humiliating security check before boarding El Al flight 326 at its connection at the Paris airport .& ldquo ; Is this the thanks I get ?& rdquo ; he asked . Not worthy of respect ?& ldquo ; I returned from a mission in which I represented the State of Israel , our country . We met with the Jewish communities in England , high - ranking , wealthy people ; we met with lords and members of parliament ; and in the end , I went through an experience that made me feel second class after they checked me as if I were a criminal , as if I am not worthy of respect .& rdquo ; As Huzeil , 38 years old and father of three , tells his story , his voice breaks and tears choke him . & ldquo ; I am an investigator in the Israel Police . This appears in their system , and I also showed them my ID when they asked ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; They put me through an illogical examination and asked unnecessary and intrusive questions , which made me feel like I was under investigation like I was guilty of something . It could be that the examiner wanted to embarrass or lower my value and dignity : I have no other way to explain it . I left there feeling terrible , and when I retell it , it brings me back to those moments , and I experience it again .& rdquo ; Huzeil said the investigator & ldquo ; also refused to identify herself , but she wanted to know how many children I have , what their names are , if I have another passport ( I have a Swiss one , I showed her ), how long I have known the women in the delegation that I flew back with , where I was , what I did , etc .& ldquo ; I told her that she was talking to a police officer and not a regular citizen ," he said . " She didn & rsquo ; t care at all and asked if my big bag had a lock or not ; I was already annoyed by her disdain and also by her treatment of me in a humiliating manner . If this is how they treat a police officer and investigator who was at the Nova Festival and saved hundreds of human lives , I don & rsquo ; t know if there is anything left to say .& ldquo ; The fact is that the two girls who were with me did not go through the same experience and were released to board the plane very quickly ,& rdquo ; Huzeil said . & ldquo ; Only I was asked disgusting questions . I & rsquo ; m a police officer , and they interrogated me more than an ordinary citizen . It was a humiliating and unnecessary experience .& rdquo ; In response , El Al stated that , & ldquo ; First of all , we are very sorry for the passenger & rsquo ; s feelings . The security screening procedure for passengers is based on security reasons only , in accordance with the guidelines of the authorized bodies and the professional aviation security procedures .& ldquo ; We would like to emphasize that during the conversation held by the security representatives at the airport with the passenger , no special findings or problems came up , and they always made sure to treat the passenger with respect and courtesy ," the airline said .& ldquo ; The Israeli aviation security establishment and El Al are full of appreciation and gratitude for the actions of Mr . Huzeil in the events of October 7 and for his ongoing contribution to the security of the country . El Al sees itself as the airline of the entire Israeli society and will continue to be so in the future as well .& rdquo ;