Israel & rsquo ; s budget deficit could run into double digits by the end of 2024 and could cause international financial actors to lose trust in Israel & rsquo ; s economy , opposition MKs warned in a Knesset Finance Committee session on Tuesday . The budget deficit is the difference between the government & rsquo ; s expenses and its income or assets and occurs when a country & rsquo ; s spending exceeds its income . The updated 2024 budget that passed into law in March set the budget deficit ceiling at 6 . 6 %, but by the end of April already reached 7 %. Committee chairman MK Moshe Gafni ( United Torah Judaism ) held the session after nine committee members , all from the opposition , demanded he address the issue . Yesh Atid MK Vladimir Beliak , the coordinator of the opposition in the committee , pointed out at the beginning of the session that he had warned during the budget debates in March of this scenario , and criticized the government for rejecting steps to decrease its expenditures , such as closing down ministries or reducing the amount of & ldquo ; coalition funds & rdquo ; which Beliak claimed were reserved for political purposes .& ldquo ; I want to know , what deficit will we reach ? I have not heard from the finance minister [ Bezalel Smotrich ] & hellip ; If we arrive at a double - digit deficit , what will the repercussions be vis -& agrave ;- vis the credit rating companies ? What will the repercussions be on the social services that the state can provide ?& rdquo ; Beliak said . The deficit applies to the past 12 months , and the representative from the finance ministry & rsquo ; s budget department , Asaf Wexler , argued that the deficit will shrink back to within the 6 . 6 % limit by year & rsquo ; s end . According to Wexler , the sharp increase in the deficit reflected months of intense fighting and economic slowdown . It also reflected the & ldquo ; situation of very high uncertainty & rdquo ; as to when the fighting will end , and consequently to Israel & rsquo ; s economic performance . Wexler admitted , however , that if a war breaks out in Israel & rsquo ; s north , the finance ministry would likely need to update its deficit forecast . MKs criticized other aspects of the government ' s performanceDuring the session , both Beliak and Labor MK Naama Lazimi criticized other aspects of the government & rsquo ; s performance on the economy . These included breaking 2023 & rsquo ; s deficit ceiling despite updating the 2023 budget in December ; the downgrade of Israel & rsquo ; s credit rating by both S & amp ; P and Moodys ; the fact that Gafni , who is ultra - Orthodox ( haredi ), has refused to pass several provisions laid out in the budget to increase government income , to protest the withholding of funds he claims have not been given to the haredi school system ; the uptick in the cost of living and inflation remaining high at 2 . 8 %; and other aspects . The session also came a day after the finance ministry published an updated version of what is known as the & ldquo ; numerator ,& rdquo ; which computes expected government spending three years ahead . According to the numerator , the government has already committed to spending billions more in the upcoming years than it is allowed to do by law . For example , the government has already committed to spending NIS 600 billion in 2025 , higher than the legal limit of NIS 545 billion ; and it committed to spend NIS 615 billion in 2026 , despite a limit of NIS 569 . 8 billion . The result is that ahead of the 2025 budget , the state will either need to reduce its spending , which could affect its ability to provide services ; or raise taxes . & nbsp ;