Maccabi Tel Aviv clipped Panathinaikos 91 - 87 as Bonzie Colson and Lorenzo Brown led a heroic fourth - quarter comeback to hand the yellow - and - blue a 1 - 0 quarterfinal series lead at the OAKA Arena late Tuesday night . Game 2 will be back in Athens on Thursday as Maccabi will look to take a commanding 2 - 0 lead and send the best - of - five series to its Belgrade home - away - from - home due to the war back for Game 3 , and Game 4 if necessary . In the opener , Oded Katash & rsquo ; s squad grabbed an early lead as Jake Cohen paced Maccabi , however Kostas Sloukas , Luca Vildoza and Kendrick Nunn gave Ergin Ataman & rsquo ; s Greek team a 50 - 42 halftime advantage . Mathias Lessort and Wade Baldwin scored for their respective sides in the third quarter as Panathinaikos stayed in front 70 - 63 , but Baldwin came up with a leg injury in the fourth quarter as he helped Maccabi cut down the lead . Still , Colson and Brown quickly picked up the slack with points from the outside and inside to give Tel Aviv lead , while Josh Nebo hit a pair of crucial free throws to ice the game and steal Game 1 on the road . It & rsquo ; s unknown if Baldwin will play on Thursday due to the injury . While the player himself said that he will be ready to go for Game 2 , the team is questioning if he will be able to take part in the festivities . Colson scored 18 points , Brown added 16 points and Baldwin chipped in with 15 points in the win . Lessort scored 22 points , Sloukas put in 12 points and Jerian Grant scored 11 points for Pana in the loss . Triumph , adversity , and determination & ldquo ; I think we were down eight points at halftime and we were a little bit confused defensively ,& rdquo ; Katash began his postgame comments . & ldquo ; We came back to our game plan and we hit some big shots on big possessions on offense . But it was everything defensively as we showed character and I am very proud .& ldquo ; I hope Wade Baldwin & rsquo ; s injury is not that bad . The last possession and last minute always come down to big plays by big players on both sides . They missed their shot and we made it , but I am proud that we stuck in there and we stayed focused and believed . I am really happy .& rdquo ; Panathinaikos took the loss in stride .& ldquo ; I believe that we didn & rsquo ; t deserve to win ,& rdquo ; Ataman said . & ldquo ; We missed 10 free throws , we made a lot of turnovers and in the last two minutes . Everybody & ndash ; players , staff and the club & ndash ; who tried to make a festival before the game [ didn & rsquo ; t help ] ... & ldquo ; The referees with two ridiculous calls and a 3 - point shot for Baldwin ." I complained that it & rsquo ; s not fair to give that 3 - point shot & hellip ; everything went against us and we lost the game and lost the advantage and destroyed seven months of work that we made in the regular season . If we do not go to the Final Four , I will not be at Panathinaikos next year .& rdquo ; Colson , the game & rsquo ; s MVP , spoke about the victory .& ldquo ; I wanted to play my game and we just fought until the end , but it was a group effort and at halftime we spoke about what got us to this point and we did that . Everybody stepped up and it & rsquo ; s one down . We stuck to what we do , playing good defense and hitting good shots when we need to and just staying together as we showed our resiliency . We just have to keep it up .& rdquo ; Back to the on - court action , Konstantinos Mitoglou and Nunn scored for Panathinaikos as Baldwin and Brown did the same for Maccabi Tel Aviv while Jake Cohen had the hot hand for a pair of baskets to give the yellow - and - blue and early 9 - 7 lead midway through the first quarter . Nunn scored in the paint , Cohen drilled one from deep , and Sloukas came in for a layup off the wing as the frantic end - to - end pace continued . Maccabi kept up the pressure as Nebo dunked , to which Marius Grigonis dialed up from long distance , as did Brown . Baldwin hit a trio of free throws , Grigonis and Sloukas went from deep , Jasiel Rivero scored inside , Grigonis again went for a corner 3 - ball , Lessort put down a monster dunk to close out the frame , but Maccabi held a 26 - 25 lead after 10 minutes of action . Grant opened the second quarter with an off - balance jumper and Tamir Blatt went from deep , but Vildoza did the same for Pana and Lessort put in a deuce to keep things close . Grant scored while Nebo jammed , but a pair of triples from Vildoza gave the hosts a 43 - 32 lead with five minutes left in the half . Colson put in a 3 - point play as Nunn picked up his third foul , Juancho Hernangomez and Nebo traded baskets and Lessort dunked as Ataman & rsquo ; s squad took a 50 - 42 advantage into halftime . Baldwin scored to begin the third quarter for Maccabi , while Sloukas scored off a Brown turnover . But Colson went from deep and Brown scored to cut the Pana lead to 60 - 54 midway through the frame . Tel Aviv & rsquo ; s Antonius Cleveland checked in with a 3 - point play , Rivero put in a James Webb miss , and Lessort and Webb traded dunks . But Pana retained control as Panagiotis Kalaitzakis hit his free throws to keep the host side in front 70 - 63 after 30 minutes . However , Baldwin got the fourth quarter off and running with a 3 - point play for Maccabi and added a pair from the charity stripe , and Colson drilled in a 3 - pointer to make things super tight almost immediately . Lessort and Baldwin traded buckets , Rivero and Lessort did the same . Then Tel Aviv got a boost with Colson and Brown hitting from beyond the arc to snatch a 81 - 77 lead with 5 : 56 remaining in regulation time . Things went down to the wire as Grant came back with points for Pana , while Colson scored in the paint , and Blatt fed Nebo for an alley - oop . The hosts refused to fold , however , as Grant knocked down a huge corner 3 - ball and Nunn scored to tie the game up at 87 - 87 with 56 seconds left . But Maccabi was up for the task as Brown came in for a layup , Sloukas threw the ball away on the penultimate Panathinaikos offensive possession and Nebo drained a pair of free throws to close out the narrow win .& ldquo ; We stuck with it ,& rdquo ; said Nebo . & ldquo ; We know that in playoff basketball , the game isn & rsquo ; t going to be won in the first quarter , and we had to be resilient . If they go up , we have to keep playing and we can & rsquo ; t get too high or too low . We stuck to the game plan and believed in one another and we found a way to win the game . In a game like this , you have to find a way and even though we & rsquo ; re tired we had to dig down deep as this is the most important part of the season .& rdquo ;