Pope Francis on Sunday said it was " painful " to see that the truce between Israel and Hamas had been broken , and voiced hope that all parties involved can reach a new ceasefire " as soon as possible ." A seven - day pause in the fighting between Israeli forces and Hamas terrorists , which had allowed the exchange of Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners , collapsed on Friday . On Sunday , Israel stepped up its bombing campaign . More than 15 , 400 Palestinians have been killed as of Sunday , according to Hamas officials , in the conflict that broke out after a Hamas attack on southern Israel on Oct . 7 in which 1 , 200 Israelis were killed and more than 200 taken hostage ." It is painful that the truce has been broken . This means death , destruction and misery ," Francis said - his words read out by an aide because of the pope ' s frail health - during his Sunday Angelus message and prayers ." Many hostages have been freed but many are still in Gaza . We think of them , of their families , who had seen a light , a hope of embracing their loved ones again ."" In Gaza there is a lot of suffering , there is a lack of basic necessities ," Francis said . " I hope that all those involved can reach a new agreement for a ceasefire as soon as possible ," he added , and find " solutions other than weapons ." Recovering from an illness & nbsp ; The pope is limiting his public speaking and his appearances because he is recovering from a lung inflammation that forced him , among other things , to cancel a trip to Dubai this weekend for the COP28 UN climate summit ." Dear brothers and sisters , good morning . Today as well I will not be able to read everything . I am getting better , but my voice is still ( not good )," Francis said at the start of the Angelus . Screens were placed in St Peter ' s Square so that the faithful , who normally listen to the pope speaking from a window overlooking the square , could follow his message . At the end , they greeted him with chants of " Viva il papa !" ( Long live the pope ).& nbsp ;