The retreat of the United States from the world stage could doom the Abraham Accords , former US ambassador to Israel David Friedman told The Jerusalem Post Annual Conference & nbsp ; on Tuesday , in a warning to the Biden administration .& ldquo ; This won & rsquo ; t work if America retreats from the world stage and fails to project its values in the region ,& rdquo ; said Friedman as he spoke with the paper & rsquo ; s senior contributing editor and diplomatic correspondent Lahav Harkov at Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Museum of Tolerance . He spoke of the deal brokered by the former Trump administration under whose rubric & nbsp ; Israel normalized ties with four Arab countries : the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Morocco and Sudan . Watch the Jerusalem Post 10th Annual Conference video & gt ;& gt ; As a Trump administration envoy in the region , Friedman was a part of the process from its infancy . On Monday , he launched the Friedman Center for Peace throughStrength to help continue to advance the accords . He has just completed a documentary on the process and is authoring a book on the initiative . The accords , he said , were possible because they were backed by a strong US that guided and encourages ties between Arab nations and Israel , offering political , economic and security support . Friedman never mentioned the US President Joe Biden & rsquo ; s withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan , but he appeared to reference it when he said that the Biden administration needs to convince Arab states that it can be depended on as a strong regional ally . Countries that signed the Abraham Accords and those that could join the deal are asking , & ldquo ; Is America going to be a reliable partner going into the future ? All these countries depend on a strong America ,& rdquo ; Friedman said . He also spoke to the Biden administration & rsquo ; s attempt to revive the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action . The plan , otherwise known as the Iran nuclear deal , wasdesigned to limit Iran & rsquo ; s nuclear capacity and was signed between Tehran and six world powers . The former Trump administration exited the deal and the Biden administration has sought to revive it , but third - party talks held in Vienna have stalled . In the interim , Iran has advanced toward the production of a nuclear weapon , a move that diplomats and pundits have speculated could soon render the idea of reviving the JCPOA irrelevant . Friedman said the Biden administration had to be on only one of two paths ; it could halt Iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program through maximum sanctions and covert action , or it could engage in talks with regard to a new deal that would replace the JCPOA . But this gray area , in which there was an absence of diplomacy and maximum pressure , was not applied and was unsustainable . He also cautioned the Biden administration against lifting sanctions just for the option of continuing talks to revive the 2015 Iran deal . It does not make sense , he said , & ldquo ; to let up on sanctions , reduce the pressure and beg for a diplomatic outcome .& rdquo ; Watch the Jerusalem Post 10th Annual Conference video & gt ;& gt ;