Israel will not hold discussions with Jordan about the status quo on the Temple Mount in the coming weeks in light of Amman & rsquo ; s incitement against Israel , a senior Israeli diplomatic official said on Thursday . The official referred to Jordanian Prime Minister Bisher Al - Khasawneh & rsquo ; s praise for Palestinians who physically attacked Israelis amid rioting on the Temple Mount , and spoke after Jordan submitted a paper to the US calling for Israel to relinquish control of the holy site . Though Foreign Minister Yair Lapid and Defense Minister Benny Gantz met with Jordanian King Abdullah II ahead of the Muslim month of Ramadan to try to lower tensions , Israel views Jordan as having been obstructive to the aim of bringing calm to Jerusalem in recent weeks , especially in light of Khasawneh & rsquo ; s remarks amid Palestinian rioting when Passover and Ramadan coincided . As such , Israel does not plan to hold discussions about the Temple Mount with Jordan , the senior diplomatic source said , until a series of potential dates for Palestinian terrorist groups to incite violence in the coming weeks come to an end : the last Friday of Ramadan this week , Independence Day on May 5 , Nakba Day on May 15 , and Jerusalem Day on May 29 .& ldquo ; We & rsquo ; re not talking about anything other than getting through this time quietly and peacefully ,& rdquo ; said the source , adding that Washington did not convey Amman & rsquo ; s demands to Jerusalem , and is trying to reduce tension over the Temple Mount . Jordan told the US it demands that Israel respect the & ldquo ; historic status quo & rdquo ; at the Temple Mount , the holiest site in Judaism , on top of which al - Aqsa Mosque was built . Among Jordan & rsquo ; s demands was that Israel end restrictions on the number of staff members from the Jerusalem Islamic Wakf , and put the Wakf in charge of all visits by non - Muslims . Visits to the Temple Mount have grown more popular among Jews in recent years , with a record 4 , 625 Jews ascending the holy site during Passover . Jordan views the increased number of visitors as a violation of the status quo . In addition , small numbers of Jewish visitors have prayed on the Temple Mount , posting videos online of themselves doing so , and bringing journalists along . Lapid and the Prime Minister & rsquo ; s Office have said there is no Israeli policy to allow Jews to pray on the Temple Mount , but that stopping every Jew from silent worship is not possible . The foreign minister also expressed discomfort last week with denying Jews freedom of worship , though he said the status quo would not be changed . Amman has taken issue with the use of the term & ldquo ; freedom of worship & rdquo ; in the context of the Temple Mount because they see it as implying Jews are allowed to pray there . By a longstanding agreement , Jordan & rsquo ; s royal family is the custodian of al - Aqsa and exercises that role mostly through the Wakf . When Israel and Jordan made peace in 1994 , Israel committed to & ldquo ; respect the present , special role of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in Muslim Holy shrines in Jerusalem .& rdquo ; When Jordan occupied the Old City of Jerusalem from 1949 to 1967 , it did not allow Jews access to the Temple Mount or the Western Wall , despite a formal commitment that it would . Earlier this month , Khasawneh said he & ldquo ; praises every Palestinian and Jordanian Islamic Wakf worker who stands tall like a turret , and those who throw rocks at the pro - Zionists who are defiling al - Aqsa Mosque while under the security of the Israeli occupation government .& rdquo ; The Jordanian prime minister also repeated the theory , advanced by the Palestinians and firmly denied by Israel , that the Jewish state plans to divide the Temple Mount into separate spaces and hours for Jews and Muslims as it did in the Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron . That theory was used by groups like Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the past month to spark riots in Jerusalem . Reuters contributed to this report .