The Tribeca Festival announced Thursday that Come Closer , a movie by Israeli director Tom Nesher , won the Viewpoints Award , the top prize in its category . The jury said in its statement : & ldquo ; The diverse films of the Viewpoint category inspired all of us to think and feel deeply . However , when choosing a winner , our decision was unanimous . This film pulled us all in from the first few frames , and we felt that we were in skillful hands . It was fiercely executed and superbly performed .& rdquo ; Tom Nesher said , " I don ' t have enough words to describe the huge excitement , joy , and pride I feel right now . I give thanks to my talented cast , the production , the festival directors Jane Rosenthal and Robert De Niro , who stood up to the pressure and chose an Israeli film for the festival , and the judges who chose it as the winner ." Come Closer is her directorial debut . Israeli films taking the leadIsraeli films have often won important prizes and critical acclaim at the Tribeca Festival , which was created by Rosenthal , De Niro , and Craig Hatkoff to help revitalize lower Manhattan following the 9 / 11 terror attack .& nbsp ; David Volach & rsquo ; s My Father My Lord and Talya Lavie & rsquo ; s Zero Motivation each won the Best Narrative Feature Award . Ohad Knoller received the Best Actor Award for Yossi & amp ; Jagger , while Shira Haas and Joy Rieger won Best Actress Awards there for the films , Asia and Virgins , respectively . The Nora Ephron Prize , named in honor of the great American Jewish writer , was given to Israeli directors Ruthy Pribar for Asia and Lavie for Zero Motivation . But this year , Nesher & rsquo ; s movie was the only film by an Israeli director chosen to take part in the festival , which prompted concern that the organizers may have bowed to pressure from anti - Israel factions to keep the number of Israeli films competing in the festival low this year .& nbsp ; The festival takes place despite Israel - Hamas warThe festival was held this year amid a rise in antisemitism and anti - Israel sentiment in the US following the October 7 massacre by Hamas and the war in Gaza .& nbsp ; Just days before Thursday & rsquo ; s prize ceremony , footage was posted on social media of a New York subway train , reportedly at the Union Square station , where masked pro - Hamas protesters chanted in cultlike fashion that any Zionists should identify themselves and leave the train .& nbsp ; Union Square is just a few stops away from the main venue of the Tribeca Festival . The Nova Music Festival Exhibition , which commemorates the more than 360 victims murdered at the Nova Music Festival in Israel on October 7 , as well as the 40 taken hostage , is also being held near the Tribeca Festival in downtown Manhattan . Pro - Hamas protesters demonstrated outside the exhibit earlier this week , carrying flags of Hamas & rsquo ; s armed al - Qassam Brigades terror wing and of the terrorist Hezbollah group , and holding signs with slogans that included & nbsp ;& ldquo ; Long live October 7 & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; The Zionists are not Jews and not humans .& rdquo ; Protesters called the exhibit " pro - genocide Zionist propaganda ." In addition to being a win for Israel , the prize is a personal triumph for Nesher , whose father , Avi Nesher , is one of Israel & rsquo ; s most acclaimed directors .& nbsp ; The movie was inspired by the death of her brother , Ari Nesher , in an accident in 2018 , although it is not strictly autobiographical .& nbsp ; It tells the story of Eden ( Lia Elalouf ), a troubled young woman from an upper - class Tel Aviv family whose brother dies suddenly . In the aftermath of his death , she discovers he had a girlfriend , Maya ( Darya Rosen ), whom he kept hidden from the family .& nbsp ; Eden becomes obsessed with Maya and tracks her down , convincing Maya to go with her to Sinai . The two young women are drawn together in an intense bond forged in pain , and their story takes a passionate and dangerous turn ." In these difficult days , when we see boycotts of Israeli art and huge demonstrations around the world ( and in New York in particular ), it is a [ matter of ] great pride for us that the film was chosen to be shown at a prestigious festival like the Tribeca Festival , in the heart of Manhattan ,& rdquo ; Nesher said in a statement when the film was accepted to Tribeca . The lead actresses , Elalouf and Rosen , are both newcomers , and the rest of the cast includes Ido Tako , Yaakov Zada - Daniel , and Neta Garty . Musician Shlomi Shaban also has a role .& nbsp ; Among the film & rsquo ; s producers is Anthony Bregman , an American producer who has made indie classics such as Michel Gondry & rsquo ; s Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , as well as such recent films as Nicole Holofcener & rsquo ; s You Hurt My Feelings and John Carney & rsquo ; s Flora and Son . Nesher , who has made several acclaimed short films , most recently And Now Shut Your Eyes , and who was a correspondent for Reshet 13 , added , & ldquo ; My heart is full of pride for my dear partners in the creation of the film -- the actors and actresses , the crew , and everyone who took part in this long and exciting journey . Our soul is completely invested in this film , which was created out of great pain and with a lot of love for life and their strength . Come Closer is intended for everyone who chooses life , even after loss and endless pain . . . I ' m waiting for the day when the film meets the Israeli audience ." The movie is tentatively scheduled to be released in Israel in the fall .