Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hinted that Israel would not shy away from military action against Iran when he spoke at the graduation ceremony for new IAF pilots on Wednesday .

& ldquo ; We will not allow Iran to acquire nuclear weapons ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said .

We do not take lightly the threats made against us , nor do we shy away from them ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said .

& ldquo ; Our policy is clear and consistent : whoever tries to harm us will suffer a crushing blow .

& ldquo ; In the face of danger , the air force is ready to act forcefully & ndash ; at any range , in any arena and on any target ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu stated .

He promised that Israel would stand firm against Iran & rsquo ; s nuclear program and its entrenchment in Syria .

& ldquo ; We will continue to act against attempts by Iran and its proxies to establish military bases in Syria . We will not compromise on this issue ,& rdquo ; he said .

Nor will Israel compromise on the steps needed to prevent it enemies from developing precision missiles and placing them in Syria , Lebanon and elsewhere , Netanyahu said .

His words echoed statements made by IDF Chief - of - Staff Chief Lt .- Gen . Aviv Kochavi at an awards ceremony on Monday .

& ldquo ; We are hearing more and more threats against Israel coming from Iran ,& rdquo ; Kochavi said . & ldquo ; If Iran and its partners ... attack the State of Israel , they will [ pay ] a heavy price .& rdquo ;

Tensions have increased between Iran and Israel , as well as between Tehran and Washington , in advance of the change of administrations in the White House on January 20 when Joe Biden takes over from US President Donald Trump .

Israel is concerned that US policy on Iran is about to undergo a sea - change under the incoming Biden administration , which Israel fears will make conciliatory gestures toward Iran . Satellite images obtained by AP last week showed construction work at Iran & rsquo ; s underground Fordow nuclear facility , seemed to lend credence to the concern that Iran has pushed forward with its weapons program .