An IDF soldier was murdered in a Palestinian shooting attack near Kedumim in the northern West Bank on Thursday , with the terrorist also later killed . The soldier was identified as IDF Staff - Sergeant Shilo Yosef Amir , a 22 year old from Meirav in northern Israel and a soldier in Sayeret Givati . Hamas ' s al - Qassam Brigades declared responsibility for the attack , saying that it was conducted as a response to the recent Israeli operation in Jenin and the tearing up of the Quran in Urif . The al - Qassam Brigades added that the attack aimed " to tell the criminal Zionist Minister [ Finance Minister Betzalel ] Smotrich that al - Qassam almost knocked on your door ." Smotrich lives in Kdumim . Around 3 : 45 p . m ., security forces connected to Kedumim identified a suspicious white van that was driving in circles around the outskirts of the yishuv . The suspicious movements of the vehicle led those security forces to send out a mix of a civilian security official and a group of four IDF soldiers to converge on and approach the van . IDF Brig . Gen . Avi Blut said that the heightened awareness of the Yishuv ' s security complement both in detecting the van and in keeping all of the gates to the Yishuv closed , may have saved significant civilian lives since it meant the terrorist could not penetrate the Yishuv or achieve any surprise . The civilian security official arrived at the vehicle first and initiated a request for the driver to produce identification . The driver continued to act suspiciously but did not yet open fire . How the attack unfoldedVery shortly after , the four IDF soldiers arrived and started to approach the terrorist . At a certain point during their approach , the terrorist opened fire , mortally wounding the commander of the four IDF soldiers , who was hit with one deadly bullet . Magen David Adom initially indicated that the soldier was severely wounded after the IDF confirmed reports of the attack , but later confirmed his death . Though the terrorist also fired in the direction of the civilian security official , he was not injured . There were conflicting reports about potential other incidents in the area as the terrorist attacker initially escaped on foot , fleeing toward the Jiat junction . The remaining three IDF soldiers pursued him and managed to bring him down with gunfire . Additional soldiers arrived on the scene shortly after and ensured that he was neutralized .& nbsp ; Blut said that the IDF has identified the terrorist , but will only release his identity later , after determining whether he was a lone wolf attacker or whether he was directed to carry out the attack by a terror group . The IDF has already determined that no other attacker was involved in the incident and that the terrorist did not come from Jenin . Blut said that once the terrorist ' s identity is publicized , the IDF will also initiate processes related to his family and potentially demolish his house . This is a developing story .