The European Union hinted that Israeli settlement activity could harm the Abraham Accords as Prime Minister [ Benjamin ] Netanyahu spoke of a possible declaration to legalize 46 outposts & quot ; within days & quot ; and the IDF advanced plans for 792 settler homes .

@@@ At this critical juncture for peace in the Middle East , these moves are & hellip ; counterproductive in light of the positive developments of normalization agreements between Israel and a number of Arab States ,& quot ; said the spokesperson for EU foreign affairs and security policy .

Under the rubric of the Trump administration @@@ s Abraham Accords , Israel normalized ties with the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Morocco and Sudan in exchange for the suspension of plans to annex the settlements .

No mention was made of settlement activity , which has been a source of conflict with the EU and is likely to be problem between Israel and US President - elect Joe Biden who takes office on Wednesday .

& quot ; The EU has repeatedly called on Israel to end all settlement activity , and to dismantle outposts erected since March 2001 ,& quot ; the EU spokesperson said .

He reiterated that settlement activity was & quot ; contrary to international law and further undermines the prospects of a viable two - state solution .& quot ; He also called on Israel to suspend an east Jerusalem project for new Jewish homes in Givat Hamatos .

The spokesperson for Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said Israel @@@ s recent settlement moves were a slight to Biden . 

This is a preemptive attempt to undermine any effort by the Biden @@@ s administration to relaunch the stalled peace process , spokesperson Nabil Abu Rudeineh said .

His words were reported in the Palestinian news agency WAFA . Rudeineh called for immediate international action .

Rudeineh spoke after the Higher Planning Council for Judea and Samaria met Sunday . It agreed to the deposit of plans for 415 new homes and to the authorization of 377 units .

The left - wing NGO Peace Now said that & ldquo ; by promoting hundreds of settlement units , Prime Minister [ Benjamin ] Netanyahu is once again putting his personal political interests over those of the country . Not only will this settlement activity erode the possibility for a conflict - ending resolution with the Palestinians in the long - term , but in the short - term it needlessly sets Israel on a collision course with the incoming Biden administration .& rdquo ;

The advancement of two of the plans , moved two outposts forward in the path towards legalization . 

This included deposit of a plan for 96 homes in the Havat Yair outpost , which will become a new neighborhood of the Yakir settlements .

In addition , a plan for 94 homes in the Nofei Nechemia outpost was deposited so that the community could become a new neighborhood of the Rehelim settlement .& nbsp ; An additional 118 homes for that community were also advanced .

Samaria Regional Council head Yossi Dagan called the deposit of plans for the two outposts an & quot ; historic achievement & quot ; and said that it marked the turning point towards their authorization .

The advancement of plans for these two outposts is independent of the overall outpost battle that the Yesha Council is waging . It has called for the government to declare its intent to legalize the outposts .

Plans for 107 news homes in the Tel Menashe settlement were also deposited . Tel Menashe is the home community of terror victim Esther Horgan , who was killed while jogging in a nearby forest . Her family had called for additional building in her memory . Her husband Benjamin participated in the Council meeting over Zoom and thanked its members .

The Higher Planning Council also gave its approval to plans for 377 settler homes . This included 66 in Oranit , 36 in Karnei Shomron , 152 in Shavei Shomron and 123 in Itamar .

Settler reaction was muted in part because focus has been on the large outpost battle and because the number of settler homes advanced is low compared to past meetings , when the number of units advanced were often in the range of several thousand .
