Israel ' s cabinet on Sunday voted unanimously to shut down the Qatari news outlet Al Jazeera ' s operations in Israel , nearly six months after first announcing its intentions to do so due to security concerns related to the Israel - Hamas war . The decision , which requires recertification every 45 days , includes shutting down Al Jazeera broadcasts in Arabic and English ; shutting down Al Jazeera ' s offices in Israel ; seizing equipment used for its broadcasts ; and limiting access to its websites . Communications Minister Shlomo Karhi signed an executive order soon after the vote passed , and it thus came into effect immediately . Videos on Sunday afternoon showed law enforcement officials arriving at Al Jazeera ' s Jerusalem offices in the Ambassador Hotel . HOT , one of Israel ' s major television service providers , announced that it had shut down Al Jazeera ' s broadcasts . Another provider , YES , ran the following message on the blacked - out channel , " In accordance with the government decision , the Al Jazeera station ' s broadcasts have been stopped in Israel ." In a joint statement following the vote , Netanyahu said that " Al Jazeera correspondents have harmed the security of Israel and incited against IDF soldiers . The time has come to eject Hamas ' s mouthpiece from our country ." Karhi added , " We will take immediate action against those who use freedom of the press to harm the security of Israel and IDF soldiers , and incite to terrorism in time of war . There will be no freedom of expression for Hamas ' s mouthpieces in Israel ." Al Jazeera condemned the decision , calling it a " criminal action ."" Israel ' s suppression of free press to cover up its crimes by killing and arresting journalists has not deterred us from performing our duty ," it said . Decision goes against Mossad chief ' s positionIsrael ' s National Security Cabinet was scheduled to hold the vote already on Thursday , but Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu delayed it due to concern that the vote would not pass . According to a spokesperson for Minister - without - portfolio MK Benny Gantz ' s National Unity party , this was because Mossad chief David Barnea requested that the government delay it for a few days , so as to avoid possible negative diplomatic ramifications relating to Qatar , a mediator between Israel and Hamas in negotiations for a deal to free Israeli hostages . The decision required approval from either the government ' s National Security Cabinet ( NSC ) or the general cabinet , and Netanyahu chose to move forwards on Sunday in the general cabinet . National Unity ' s three ministers were not present at the meeting and did not take part in the vote . The party said in a statement that its ministers " support closing Al Jazeera ' s broadcasts and even announced that they would support its closure in the recent ( national security ) cabinet meeting ." However , " Bringing the topic forward this morning for a vote in the government meeting , is a correct decision but with terrible timing , that could undermine efforts to exhaust the ( hostage deal ) negotiations , and stems from political considerations ," the party said . Karhi countered by accusing the centrist National Unity of acting like a " fifth column " within the government . According to Karhi , the decision received " unequivocal validation " by all security officials . & nbsp ; & nbsp ;& nbsp ; The decision was based on a law that Israel ' s Knesset ( parliament ) passed on April 2 , which expires on July 31 . The legislation will therefore need to be extended if the government wishes to extend the banning of Al Jazeera beyond that date . The law itself is also facing a constitutional challenge in the High Court of Justice by the Association for Civil Rights in Israel ( ACRI ) based on its violation of free speech , and the state has until May 15 to file its preliminary response to the court . The government passed emergency executive measures at the start of the war that would have enabled it to shut down Al Jazeera temporarily . These were in effect from October 21 until January 20 . However , the government refrained from implementing these measures during that period , reportedly due to possible negative diplomatic ramifications relating to Qatar . The legislation that passed in April was aimed at giving the cabinet firmer legal footing to move against Al Jazeera . In its decision on Sunday , the cabinet explained that it had classified opinions from the Shin Bet on April 9 deeming Al Jazeera a national security threat . The IDF and Mossad also provided classified opinions supporting limiting Al Jazeera ' s broadcasts in Israel . According to the law , the decision must be brought before a regional chief justice or deputy chief justice within 24 hours , who then have three days to decide whether or not to change the decision or limit the length of the ban . In its petition to the High Court of Justice against the law , argued that it unnecessarily limited free speech and was thus unconstitutional . ACRI said that while there was no arguing the fact that Al Jazeera ran a " pro - Palestinian " narrative , this was not a sufficient reason to shut down the network . In addition , the network provides content from Arab states and includes Israeli Arab perspectives that have been quoted numerously on mainstream Israeli media , indicating that its content was viewed as important , ACRI added . The NGO acknowledged that Al - Jazeera had included content that incited against Israel . Still , the severity of this incitement was no worse than incitement against Palestinians on mainstream Israeli websites , ACRI argued . ACRI filed a request on Thursday that the court issue a temporary order barring the government from deciding to shut down Al Jazeera until the case is heard . The court denied the request , and said it would consider a temporary order after receiving the state ' s preliminary position .