An Israeli court has acquitted the police officer charged with causing the death of 18 - year - old Solomon Tekah of the Ethiopian community , five years ago , Israeli media reported on Tuesday . The police officer claimed that when he arrived with his wife and children at a playground in a grove in Kiryat Haim he broke up a brawl between teenagers , after which the group , Tekah included , threw stones at him and his family . Feeling their lives were in danger , the police officer said he shot at the ground . Despite many versions of the incident , the evidence showed that the bullet ricocheted off the asphalt and hit Tekah . The killing triggered widespread protests in 2019 . Tekah ' s family comments on verdict & nbsp ; Tekah & rsquo ; s mother stated , & ldquo ; We are in pain and live in pain , not only we , the parents , but also our children . For a whole month we and the children did not sleep , we knew that the judge would not convict the police officer . We left the court in the middle because tolerating the judge & rsquo ; s words or hearing what he said was impossible .& rdquo ; Tekah & rsquo ; s father said at the end of the trial , & ldquo ; We didn & rsquo ; t try , and we didn & rsquo ; t think we would get a fair trial from lawyers in Israel . We struggled for four years because we thought we might be able to bring change , but we were deceived .& ldquo ; The 13 young people killed from the Ethiopian community were not killed by the brutal Hamas , but by our people , by policemen whom we finance with our money . They were killed because they were black . How can a policeman 30 meters away from the children dressed as a civilian shoot a boy just because he asked who he was and to introduce himself ?& ldquo ; There is no police to protect the Ethiopian community and no judge to give us a fair trial ,& rdquo ; he added . Leaving court , Tekah & rsquo ; s sister stated , & ldquo ; Now all policemen have a right to kill ,& rdquo ; according to Israeli media . Speaking with Maariv , the Tekah family & rsquo ; s lawyer said , & ldquo ; The family is disappointed with the results ; we expected to hear a different decision but hope that the prosecutor & rsquo ; s office will decide to file an appeal . Judge Ziad Falah said following the acquittal , & ldquo ; There is a lacuna in the procedures - in an event in which a police officer is in tangible and immediate danger ... the policeman has the authority to shoot at the body of the person endangering him , and to forgo all the warning steps preceding the shooting .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Along with this authority , the policeman must reduce , as much as possible , the danger arising from his authority to shoot at the body of the person endangering him ,& rdquo ; the judge added .& ldquo ; The accused acted in self - defense when he carried out the shooting , which unfortunately led to the death of the deceased ,& rdquo ; he concluded . Public Committee Against Torture condemns rulingThe Justice Ministry & rsquo ; s Police Investigation Department ( PID ) released a statement which read , & ldquo ; The court ruled today that the filing of the indictment by the PID was justified and that the PID acted properly and professionally , both in the conduct of the investigation and at the time of the decision on the filing of the indictment and the management of the case . However , the court found that there was room to acquit the accused for several reasons . We will study the verdict and consider our steps .& rdquo ; According to Maariv , the PID was reportedly considering an appeal . The Public Committee Against Torture in Israel said , & ldquo ; Once again the system stands up and backs up a violent policeman , who shot to death a young man of Ethiopian origin claiming that he & lsquo ; felt a real threat to his life .& rsquo ; It seems that as far as it concerns minority communities , any norm or directive that is intended precisely for this type of case , such as shooting warning shots in the air , for example , does not apply ,& rdquo ; the committee continued .& ldquo ; The wheel cannot be turned back , nor the life of the late Tekah , but it was possible to obtain a little justice for his family and the community from which he comes , with a conviction that would send a clear and resounding message that police violence is wrong and that violent police officers must be brought to justice . In its decision today , the court turned a cold shoulder to the victim and his family and added another injustice to the pile of injustices already caused in this sad case ,& rdquo ; the committee noted . Maariv , Yonah Jeremy Bob , and Mark Weiss contributed to this article .