Israel could consider a small tactical pause to the Gaza war for an hour or so , Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu told David Muir of ABC & rsquo ; s World News Tonight program as he responded to the international pressure for a ceasefire .& ldquo ; As far as tactical little pauses , an hour here , an hour there , we have had them before ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said .& ldquo ; We will check the circumstances in order to enable humanitarian goods to come in or individual hostages to leave ,& rdquo ; he stated on Tuesday . Earlier in the day he spoke with US President Joe Biden about the possibility of such a pause to the war which was sparked on October 7 , when Hamas killed over 1 , 400 people in southern Israel and kidnapped over 240 others . According to the White House , & ldquo ; the two leaders discussed the possibility of tactical pauses to provide civilians with opportunities to safely depart from areas of ongoing fighting .& rdquo ; Such pauses , the White House said , would & ldquo ; ensure assistance is reaching civilians in need , and ... enable potential hostage releases .& rdquo ; Netanyahu : Ceasefire akin to surrenderIsrael has insisted that any ceasefire must include the release of all the hostages , and that even then it could happen only with the understanding that the IDF still intends to pursue its military campaign to oust Hamas from Gaza . The United States has backed Israel on that point , but the two sides have differed on a mechanism for humanitarian pauses , with Israel fearing that such a break in the fighting could become a de facto ceasefire .& ldquo ; A ceasefire would be a surrender to Hamas . It would be a victory for Hamas and you would no more have it than you would have a ceasefire after the al - Qaeda bombings of the World Trade Center & rdquo ; in New York in 2001 , Netanyahu told ABC .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; There will be no general ceasefire in Gaza without the release of our hostages ,& rdquo ; he stressed . A ceasefire would hamper the & ldquo ; war efforts & rdquo ; as well as efforts to secure the release of the hostages , he said .& ldquo ; The only thing that works on these criminals in Hamas is the military pressure we are exerting ,& rdquo ; Netanyahu said .& ldquo ; Until we started the ground operation there was no pressure on them to release hostages . What we see is that the minute we started the ground action there was pressure ," he added . Netanyahu also appeared to indicate that Israel might have some intelligence on the location of the hostages . He also addressed the civilian cost of the campaign to Palestinians in Gaza , in light of the UN ' s reporting that some 1 . 5 million of the 2 . 7 million people living in the coastal enclave have been displaced due to the war . Hamas has asserted that over 10 , 000 people have been killed . Netanyahu said the number included at least several thousand Palestinian combatants .& ldquo ; Every civilian lost is a tragedy . We are fighting an enemy that is particularly brutal . They are using their civilians as human shields ,& rdquo ; he said , referencing the fact that Hamas places its infrastructure in civilian areas .& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s important to understand that there is no way to defeat terrorists & rdquo ; embedded in civilian areas without incurring civilian casualties , he stated . Muir also asked Netanyahu if he took responsibility for the Israeli security failure that led to the October 7 attack .& ldquo ; The responsibility of the government is to protect the people and that clearly was not met ," Netanyahu said , but he added that the issue was best addressed after the war . Netanyahu agreed with Muir that he needed to take responsibility but not while conducting a military campaign . When the war is over , he said , & ldquo ; tough questions are going to be asked and I am going to be the among first to answer them .& rdquo ;