Among the 158 airstrikes by the IDF since Tuesday morning against Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip , there were instances in which it delayed or called off attacks to avoid civilian casualties . In a video distributed to the media , the IDF highlighted one such instance in which it called off an attack to avoid striking two civilian minors . The target appeared to be rockets , or a rocket crew , in an outdoor area covered by a number of trees . Watch : The moment an IAF pilot cancels a strike against Islamic Jihad terrorists because of the presence of children near the target . pic . twitter . com / geCzHjxWEU & mdash ; Israel Defense Forces (@ IDF ) May 11 , 2023Initially , one of the targeting officers connected to IAF Unit 200 could be heard saying that they were only one minute from firing on the target . Then another voice is heard identifying a child nearby and then identifies a second child . IDF calls off airstrike to avoid hitting children in Gaza . ( Credit : IDF Spokesperson ' s Unit ) Some of the children can be seen running around , and the original voice says multiple times to pause the attack . Eventually , the commander calls it off . IDF waited until targeted Islamic Jihad commanders were away from civiliansIn fact , the initiation of the counterstrike operation early Tuesday morning , with a weeklong delay since Islamic Jihad fired more than 100 rockets on Israel on May 2 - 3 , was partially to wait until the three top Islamic Jihad commanders were all in areas with fewer nearby civilians . Despite waiting , a number of family members and other civilians were killed during the attacks . International laws of war stipulate the limiting of civilian casualties as much as possible . Nevertheless , some ancillary civilian casualties are permitted when the military target that is among them presents a sufficient advantage . What those terms mean is hotly debated . On the one hand , Israel is criticized by many international bodies when civilians die from its attacks . On the other hand , the IDF has received compliments from other militaries for cutting - edge tactics to avoid civilian casualties and zero in on strikes . About 25 % of Islamic Jihad & rsquo ; s rockets landed within Gaza , harming Gazans or their property , the IDF said Thursday . The terrorist group & rsquo ; s rockets killed four Gazan civilians , ages 51 , 16 , 16 and 10 , it said . The statistics showed the poor quality of Islamic Jihad & rsquo ; s rockets and rocket crews , it added . They also indicated that Islamic Jihad regularly violates international laws of war by having its rocket crews in civilian areas in the Gaza Strip , as well as firing on Israeli civilians , rather than ensuring that they fire from areas where the rockets could not hit their own population , the IDF said .& nbsp ;