& lsquo ; What a night ,& rdquo ; wrote Zvika Klein , Editor - in - Chief of The Jerusalem Post , on Facebook . & ldquo ; It was filled with inspiration , sadness , hope , and prayer .& rdquo ; On Sunday evening , June 2 , the Post hosted a special gala evening at 583 Park Avenue , prior to its Annual Conference in New York on Monday . The invitation - only cocktail reception for some 200 VIP guests was organized with Bank Leumi and was held in cooperation with the Israel Defense and Security Forum ( IDSF ). AMIR AVIVI , founder of the forum , interviewed by Klein , stated that Israel is facing a global war on behalf of Western society but must seek strategic independence for war materials to ensure the country & rsquo ; s defense .& ldquo ; We are facing a global war ; this is a Chinese / Russian front ,& rdquo ; he said . Consequently , the US position on military operations & ldquo ; endangers not only Israel but all of Western society .& rdquo ; Avivi advocated for Israeli strategic independence in munitions and other military equipment to counter the arms embargoes that Israel is facing from some of its Western allies . For Israel to be able to stand on its own without relying on others is a Zionist principle , he explained . Though the IDF is destroying Hamas on the battlefield , the forum & rsquo ; s founder said , the Gazan terrorist group believes that it can survive by fostering international pressure on Israel and sparking an Israeli election . RONIT FARKASH , Director of Strategic Partnerships at IDSF , said that her son is among the soldiers fighting Hamas in Gaza . A Hamas sniper shot him , and while his ceramic vest saved him , he suffered shrapnel wounds and burns . Though still recovering from his wounds , Farkash & rsquo ; s son returned to his unit in Gaza only a few days later because his brothers in arms needed him . & ldquo ; That is the power of being united . That is the meaning of being connected to something bigger than just yourself ,& rdquo ; she said .& ldquo ; Our nation & rsquo ; s strength lies in its people and in our ability to come together in the face of adversity . We draw courage from each other , from the stories of bravery and sacrifice , from the unwavering support of friends , neighbors , and even strangers .& rdquo ; IDSF CEO Lt .- Col . ( res .) Yaron Buskila , who served in the Gaza war , described the chaos he witnessed on Oct . 7 , when people were calling him for help . Beyond the tragedy and trauma of the massacre , Buskila said he had also seen images of victory . He recalled the scores of cars and buses carrying thousands of reservists headed south to answer the call to arms , as well as people coming from all over the world to donate food and volunteer with the soldiers .& ldquo ; We are a generation of victory ,& rdquo ; he said . DIASPORA AFFAIRS and Combating Antisemitism Minister Amichai Chikli , speaking with Klein , discussed the challenges Israel faces in reducing Hamas & rsquo ; s military capabilities and the need for sustained efforts similar to those following Operation Defensive Shield in 2002 . Chikli predicted that another two years of reduced military activity would be necessary in order to reach the desired level of security for Israel & rsquo ; s South . He then turned his attention to antisemitism in the US , drawing parallels between the situation in Gaza and the need for vigilance in America . He noted that despite the increase in antisemitic incidents , the majority of Americans continue to support Israel . Chikli outlined his ministry & rsquo ; s multifaceted approach to combating antisemitism . & ldquo ; First of all , the main mission is to support the communities in terms of security , monitoring antisemitism , [ and ] investigating these organizations such as SJP [ Students for Justice in Palestine ],& rdquo ; he explained . The ministry is also focused on tracing funding sources for these organizations , which often receive significant contributions from charities and states like Qatar . In addition , it supports local organizations and campus groups such as Hillel , Olami , and Chabad . Chikli mentioned the importance of delegations , such as those of the families of hostages and victims from Oct . 7 , in raising awareness and garnering support . The minister stressed the importance of continued vigilance and support for Jewish communities worldwide . He said his ministry is dedicated to ensuring the safety and security of these communities while also fostering a deeper connection to their heritage and the State of Israel . JERUSALEM MAYOR Moshe Lion commented that the current surge in antisemitism is reminiscent of Germany in the 1930s . & ldquo ; Far from home , we see the terrible scenes you have experienced & ndash ; on campus , on the streets , with attacks on Jews & ndash ; like we have not seen since 1930s Germany ,& rdquo ; the mayor said . & ldquo ; Have no doubt & ndash ; the Jewish people are under attack .& rdquo ; Lion described the difficult war that Israel is waging against its enemies . & ldquo ; On our borders sit terror armies , shooting missiles on our heads . Courts and parliaments worldwide try to stop us from defending our people .& rdquo ; Despite the difficulties , he said , Jerusalem is ready to face the challenges . & ldquo ; We are continuing to build , across the city , for the benefit of all the communities : Jews , Muslims , Christians , and more .& rdquo ; Lion also mentioned the plight of the hostages in front of some 70 of their family members who attended the event . & ldquo ; In Gaza , our brothers and sisters , men , women , children and babies , are being held captive by the worst terrorists ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; We all pray to have them home with their families .& rdquo ; A GROUP of 70 relatives attended the reception . Several addressed guests at the gala and described the harsh reality they have encountered since Oct . 7 . On that horrific day , the Idan family was in their home in Kibbutz Nahal Oz . Hamas terrorists broke into the building , shot and killed 18 - year - old Maayan , and held the family at gunpoint for hours , streaming live video from the phone of her mother , Gali , on her Facebook account . Her father , Tsachi , was taken hostage .& ldquo ; I was in Tel Aviv ,& rdquo ; Devorah Idan , Tsachi & rsquo ; s mother , recounted on stage . & ldquo ; We saw what was happening & ndash ; we watched for hours . We saw the children crying , asking the terrorists why they killed their sister .& rdquo ; Eventually , Tsachi was taken away . & ldquo ; For us , that day has never ended ,& rdquo ; Idan said . & ldquo ; We live in a perpetual nightmare . My granddaughter was killed , and my son was kidnapped . He did not get to go to her funeral . He did not get to mourn for her . I came [ here ] all the way from Israel to ask for help .& rdquo ; MOSHE EMILIO LAVI , a former IDF captain from Sderot who now works as a management consultant in New York , criticized the Israeli authorities , including some of the officials attending the gala evening . Lavi & rsquo ; s brother - in - law Omri Miran is being held in Gaza .& ldquo ; Every time I addressed an international body or foreign government officials , I asked them to keep Hamas accountable ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; At the same time , I hold my government accountable . We know there is an Israeli proposal for an agreement on the table . On October 8 , we were promised that bringing the hostages home was the most important short - term objective of the war because time was of the essence . After that , we could tackle the challenge of destroying Hamas .& rdquo ; Lavi recounted the horrors experienced by Omri , his sister Lishay , and his young nieces Roni and Alma at Kibbutz Nahal Oz at the hands of the Hamas terrorists . Lishay and the girls survived and were rescued by the IDF ; Omri was taken hostage .& ldquo ; Roni will turn three in July , and all she is asking is that her father is with her for her birthday ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; She knows he already missed her mom & rsquo ; s birthday and her little sister & rsquo ; s first birthday . She just wants him back .& rdquo ; RONEN NEUTRA described his son Omer , a 22 - year - old soldier kidnapped on Oct . 7 , as the & ldquo ; poster boy & rdquo ; for the American Jewish dream . & ldquo ; Omer is an American kid . Growing up , he loved sports , and he was very involved with his Jewish youth movement ,& rdquo ; he recalled . Neutra explained that he and his wife , who both hold dual American and Israeli citizenship and are children of Holocaust survivors , understood and supported Omer & rsquo ; s desire to serve in the IDF .& ldquo ; On October 6 , he called us , and he said he was expecting a quiet Shabbat after a month of very intense work , spending some 18 hours a day on his tank ,& rdquo ; Neutra recounted . When the attack began , he and his comrades rushed to the border with their tanks .& ldquo ; His whole team was taken ,& rdquo ; Neutra said . & ldquo ; Two of them were killed , and two were taken captive .& ldquo ; Since then , my wife and I are fighting to bring my son and all the other hostages back ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; We feel the American authorities have been very supportive , but we are not sure about the Israeli government . Everyone should remember that redeeming captives is a central value in the Torah . I ask everyone in this room to do what they can to help bring my son and all the other hostages home .& rdquo ; After the panel , all the family members of hostages attending the event went up on stage . The reception ended with the singing of & ldquo ; Hatikvah .& rdquo ; This article was written in cooperation with the Israel Defense and Security Forum .