Southern Israel was bombarded by over 200 rockets from the Gaza Strip as terror groups sent barrages of rockets , injuring at least seven Israeli civilians .

In retaliation for the rocket - fire , the IDF carried out waves of airstrikes against 130 terror targets in the Strip , an operation they call & ldquo ; Guardians of the wall .& rdquo ;

The targets hit by Israel included the home of a Hamas battalion commander in a multi - story building , the organization & rsquo ; s military intelligence headquarters , munition manufacturing sites , military complexes belonging to Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad , as well as two offensive tunnels that were close to the border fence . The strikes also killed 15 Hamas terrorists .

Palestinian WAFA news agency reported that a total of 21 people including children were killed in the strikes and another 75 were injured .

The wave of airstrikes began after the security cabinet authorized a & quot ; significant airstrikes & quot ; in the Gaza Strip .

IDF Spokesman Brig .- Gen . Hidai Zilberman warned that the military is & ldquo ; prepared for a variety of scenarios & rdquo ; including an escalation and said that the operation would last & ldquo ; several days & rdquo ; and would deal a hard blow to Hamas .

As such , the IDF has deployed additional Iron Dome batteries to the southern Gush Dan region .

& ldquo ; We will continue to act vigorously against Hamas and other terror organizations ,& rdquo ; he said , adding that Hamas is responsible for & ldquo ; what is happening and will bear the consequences .& rdquo ;

Referring to the casualties in Gaza , Zilberman said that while Israel & ldquo ; takes precautions & rdquo ; to minimize possible harm to civilians during its military operations , Hamas & ldquo ; deliberately places its military assets in the heart of the civilian population in Gaza .& rdquo ;

The spokesman stressed that while 200 rockets were fired towards Israel , ⅓ of the rockets fell inside Gaza . The Iron Dome , he said , had a 90 % success rate in intercepting dozens of rockets fired from the Strip .


For more on Hamas attacks and IDF operations & nbsp ; read here

For more on rocket attacks against Israel & nbsp ; read here



For more on Israeli strikes on Gaza & nbsp ; read here .

For more on world reactions to Gaza violence & nbsp ; read here

For more on Israeli Politician Gaza reactions & nbsp ; read here
 
Hamas had threatened Israel on Monday that it would launch the rockets due to the ongoing clashes in Jerusalem and shortly after 6 p . m . seven rockets were fired towards the capital . 

Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh said on Monday night that & quot ; Jerusalem has called and Gaza has responded . We will continue as long as Israel does not stop the aggression and terrorism in Jerusalem and at the al - Aqsa Mosque .& quot ;

On Monday night Zilberman said that the combined rocket attacks towards Jerusalem , Gaza border communities and the anti - tank guided missile that hit a civilian vehicle & ldquo ; is a significant event that won & rsquo ; t go by quietly .& rdquo ;

& ldquo ; Hamas will feel our response to this event ... it will not last several minutes , but days ,& rdquo ; he warned .