After he made Israelis fall in love with the wonders of Greek cuisine anew and sold more than 100 , 000 copies of the cookbook he published about this cuisine , the time has come to go on a journey : Tzviki Eshet and Geo Tours teamed up for culinary tours to Athens and the island of Kea . The first voyage will depart between May 24 - 27 . This is a 4 - day journey that will begin on Friday , May 24 with an early landing in Athens and will close late at night on Monday , May 27 . The main event will take place in Athens and its surroundings , where Eshet and the Greco team promise to reveal to the participants restaurants and taverns hidden from view where mostly the locals hang out . An in - depth tour will be conducted in the huge food market of Athens and the port city of Piraeus - which guarantees an encounter with artisanal producers based on long - standing production traditions . They will also go through the provinces around Athens and discover the extensive culinary scene that takes place there . In order to get to know the real raw materials , the Greeks ' " asli ,” the journey will pass through various points , among them : in the ancient bakery in Greece , a fourth generation of traditional baking . They will visit a winery that specializes in the production of Retsina wine and in order to explore the taste of the sea , they will arrive at a secret tavern located on the shore of a magical cove , where everything on the plate has risen an hour earlier from the sea . And how is it possible without Greek music ? There will be a lot of it too , in several genres that make the heart happy . The rural cuisine of Greece will also receive attention when the group goes for a full day to the island of Kea ( about an hour and a quarter sailing from Athens ). The first part of the day will be dedicated to a tour of the island ' s villages and a visit to the local producers . Later , at a rural farm , the group will go through a private cooking workshop not by professional chefs but by " mamas " who will reveal some of the knowledge and secrets that are passed down from generation to generation . The rest of the day will be filled with relaxing activities , with the group being hosted after lunch and dinner at Kea Retreat - the retreat that opened 3 years ago on the island and is currently ranked in “ Vouge ” magazine as a must - visit hotel . Entrepreneur and restaurateur Zviki Eshet is one of the Israelis most identified with Greece and its food culture . In 2012 , he opened the first Greco , which became an empire and currently has 10 branches that host over 5 , 000 people a day . The cost of the trip includes accommodation in a luxurious boutique hotel , all the culinary experiences , participation in a private cooking workshop , a visit to the night clubs and more for 3 , 295 euros per person . The journey was created and produced by Maya Karvat , owner of the agency Maya Karvat Communication and Content . To register please visit the website