At the Jerusalem Post 2024 Annual Conference , Steven Fuld , a member of the Board of Directors for the American Technion Society ( ATS ), spoke about the Technion - Israel Institute of Technology as Israel & rsquo ; s " beacon of innovation nestled in the hills of Haifa ." Fuld noted the ATS ' s substantial financial contributions to support advanced science and technology research and education . He further emphasized that the ATS mission extends beyond funding and serves a role in promoting a truthful narrative : " It ' s about telling the true story of the Technion and by extension , the true story of Israel ." WHAT IF & nbsp ; - Desert ? ( Credit : ATS ) What If - Minds ?& nbsp ; ( Credit : ATS ) Fuld mentioned the Technion & rsquo ; s century - long role at the forefront of Israeli innovation and high - tech . Its campus is a " vibrant hub of multidisciplinary study ," home to over 12 , 000 undergraduate and 3 , 000 graduate students . He cited the Technion ' s Faculty of Aerospace Engineering , a key player in the country ' s $ 12 . 5 billion aerospace industry , as well as the Technion ' s integration of engineering and medical disciplines , which produced groundbreaking technologies and three Nobel laureates . He stressed the Technion ' s remarkable role in promoting diversity with meritocracy . Nearly half of its students are women , 20 % are Israeli Arabs , and over 1 , 000 international students from 30 countries enrich the campus . " The diversity is not just a statistic ; it ' s a driving force ," Fuld remarked . What if - Seaweed ? ( Credit : ATS ) WHAT IF - Nose ? ( Credit : ATS ) Concluding his speech , Fuld urged support for this " beacon of hope and innovation ." He passionately asked , " What if we can change the world ? We can & ndash ; because of the Technion !" He called on the audience to join in supporting the Technion for the future of Israel and its next generation . The American Technion Society sponsored a portion of the Jerusalem Post Annual Conference .& nbsp ; www . jpost . com / AC24