Colombian President Gustavo Petro has ordered the opening of an embassy in the Palestinian city of Ramallah , Foreign Minister Luis Gilberto Murillo told journalists on Wednesday ." President Petro has given the order that we open the Colombian embassy in Ramallah , the representation of Colombia in Ramallah , that is the next step we are going to take ," Murillo said . Murillo added he believes more countries will soon begin backing the recognition of a Palestinian state before the United Nations , efforts Colombia has already supported . At the beginning of this month , Petro , who had already recalled the Colombian ambassador from Tel Aviv , said he would break diplomatic relations with Israel over its actions in Gaza . The embassy was closed on May 3 . Petro has heavily criticized Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and has requested to join South Africa ' s case accusing Israel of genocide at the International Court of Justice . Israeli Foreign Minister Israel Katz accused Petro of being " antisemitic and full of hate " following Colombia ' s decision to cut ties with the Middle Eastern country , saying the move was a reward for Hamas . Ramallah , in the West Bank , serves as the administrative capital of the Palestinian Authority . On May 10 , the United Nations General Assembly overwhelmingly backed a Palestinian bid to become a full UN member by recognizing it as qualified to join and recommended the UN Security Council " reconsider the matter favorably ." Israel - Hamas warIsrael has been rooting out Hamas in Gaza over a brutal rampage by Hamas militants in Israel on Oct . 7 in which 1 , 200 people were killed and more than 250 taken hostage . Nearly 36 , 000 Palestinians have been killed in the war , according to the Gaza health ministry . Israel ' s response has drawn heavy international criticism , with aid access into southern Gaza disrupted since it stepped up military operations in Rafah , a move that the UN says has forced 900 , 000 people to flee and has raised tensions with neighboring Egypt . Colombia was not the first Latin American country to cut ties with Israel . Bolivia broke with relations with Israel at the end of October last year while several other countries in Latin America , including Chile and Honduras , have recalled their ambassadors .