& ldquo ; There is not a place in Israel that is safe now . If Hamas is not taken care of , there will literally be no place to go in the country ,& rdquo ; according to Israel Defense Forces spokesman Maj . Doron Spielman . Spielman spoke to The Jerusalem Post from Kibbutz Be & rsquo ; eri in southern Israel , where over 100 of the community & rsquo ; s approximately 1 , 000 residents were slaughtered on October 7 . Israeli strikes targeting Hamas interrupted the conversation frequently with loud booms . Israel has been conducting airstrikes against Hamas for the past two weeks . The IDF and the Prime Minister & rsquo ; s Office have discussed the possibility of an imminent ground offensive to cripple Hamas & rsquo ; s capacity to function as a government or as a terrorist organization . The last time Israel entered Gaza was in 2014 in Operation Protective Edge , 67 soldiers were killed . Following the recent attacks that claimed more than 1 , 400 lives , Spielman acknowledged the reluctance to consider further casualties in a war against Hamas . Nevertheless , he believes that the people of Israel will support such actions .& ldquo ; This is not Vietnam , 4 , 000 miles away . The enemy is two miles away ,& rdquo ; Spielman said . & ldquo ; The sons or daughters who enter Gaza will be fighting for their homes , literally , behind them . The citizens will stand behind us until the job is done .& rdquo ; He said , & ldquo ; I think it is going to be very difficult and could be very painful . Not taking action could be more painful .& rdquo ; However , the IDF and Israel & rsquo ; s intelligence community could not prevent the Hamas massacre . In some instances , such as in Kibbutz Be & rsquo ; eri , it took troops more than eight hours to arrive to engage the terrorists . This has raised questions whether the country can effectively rely on the IDF to deal with Hamas . Spielman said the troops were caught off guard on October 7 . Yet , & ldquo ; when they did show up , they did an excellent job .& rdquo ; He said , & ldquo ; I think the difference now is that we know our exact mission . Our troops have been incredibly trained . Even before this and now , they & rsquo ; ve been training in urban warfare settings .& rdquo ; To dismantle Hamas , the IDF needs to go to themIf Israel wants to dismantle Hamas , he said , the country has to go where the terrorists are . What is the mission ?& ldquo ; To completely dismantle Hamas , both on a governance level and on the military level ,& rdquo ; said Spielman . & ldquo ; The idea is that Hamas cannot just pop up again . It & rsquo ; s the idea that you & rsquo ; re rooting out Hamas . You & rsquo ; re pulling the roots out of the ground so that they can no longer have a life force .& ldquo ; This is a very complicated , long - term mission that our soldiers are ready for .& rdquo ;