Maccabi Tel Aviv ended a turbulent season in the best possible way this week as it wrapped up the franchise & rsquo ; s 57th championship after defeating Hapoel Tel Aviv 2 - 1 in what will go down as back - to - back titles for the yellow - and - blue over its city rival . In what was a heated series , both on and off the court , that unfortunately saw a tremendous amount of fan violence in the shadow of the war against Hamas , Maccabi & rsquo ; s coach , Oded Katash , was able to steer his ship to the promised land . As the campaign came to an end and Maccabi hoisted the championship plate in front of its home crowd , Katash spent some time following the game to take a look back at the entire year and the challenges that he will need to deal with in the upcoming days , weeks and months . The country & rsquo ; s winningest franchise began the 2023 / 24 campaign way back in August , when the majority of the prior year & rsquo ; s roster of players returned to the country to start training camp with an air of optimism that this would be a historic and unforgettable year . With a returning core of star veterans , including Wade Baldwin and Lorenzo Brown as well as budding forwards Bonzie Colson and Roman Sorkin , to go along with newcomers Jasiel Rivero and Tamir Blatt , Maccabi was set to be the talk of the town and challenge for the Euroleague crown . Maccabi looked superb in its opening Euroleague game against Partizan Belgrade at Yad Eliyahu on Thursday , October 5 as hopes were very high that the club would once again reach the top of the continental basketball world . However , that was before October 7 occurred , and Hamas & rsquo ; s attack on the Jewish State set off a chain of effects that turned the former reality upside down . The yellow - and - blue had to pivot quickly as the import players and their families were flown out of the country , and after a very short break Belgrade became the club & rsquo ; s new temporary home .& ldquo ; It was a difficult year , regardless of basketball ,& rdquo ; Katash began . & ldquo ; We are citizens of the country and it has been quite an experience that we are going through . This one season felt like three or four years and in addition to what happened with my good friend and coach Lior Lubin who passed away , it was intense and very complex . Every day there was something that happened and perhaps my character is sometimes a disadvantage in these situations , but maybe it was an advantage .& rdquo ; In addition to his own mental make - up , Katash referenced his players & rsquo ; strengths .& ldquo ; If we didn & rsquo ; t have continuity in the roster from last year , we wouldn & rsquo ; t have been able to survive this entire situation . We had a tough schedule but we were able to do it with the character of the players and building upon what we had started last season .& rdquo ; The prevailing thought was that Maccabi would fall apart without its home crowd to cheer it on and a successful Euroleague campaign was at that point too lofty an expectation . But that was not the case as the players and staff pulled it together and ended up in seventh place with an impressive 20 - 14 record , earning it a place in the Play - In . After easily disposing of Baskonia , Panathinaikos was up next for Maccabi as it took the eventual Euroleague champs to five games before falling in Athens . Local victoryLocally , the yellow - and - blue won game after game in the domestic league throughout the winter months but ended up falling in the State Cup final to Hapoel Jerusalem in a game that took place just days after the club & rsquo ; s continental campaign came to an end .& ldquo ; When you win a title it & rsquo ; s always great , but this season was extra special after everything we had experienced . After we ended Europe we were really done and we had so many injuries and situations that we paid a price for , whether it was the war or personal issues of the players as well . After we lost the cup , the players really didn & rsquo ; t want to finish this season that way . In some ways , everything went against us but we also have to look at things in proportion as there are still hostages in Gaza .& rdquo ; Katash & rsquo ; s charges pulled it all together in their league quarterfinal series against Ness Ziona , which resulted in a sweep that was followed up by another walkover versus Jerusalem , which was without injured star Levi Randolph ( now rumored to be coming to Maccabi ). Hapoel Tel Aviv looked to avenge last year & rsquo ; s final series loss , but once again the Reds came up short and Maccabi captured yet another title . While the yellow - and - blue can bask in championship glory , the celebrations will be short lived as it will need to start rebuilding the roster for the 24 / 25 season that is right around the corner and there will be plenty of changes coming , from both imports to Israelis . Baldwin and Brown swiftly declared that they will be leaving the team due to the war , with their announcements coming as they were still on the floor celebrating . Josh Nebo & rsquo ; s contract is up and he will be departing while Bonzie Colson is still undecided as to where he will suit up next season . Baldwin , Brown and Colson all have contracts for the 24 / 25 campaign with Maccabi , but the club will not stand in their way should they want to leave . Katash of course would love for them to all stay but the reality is that they will be heading to other teams .& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s sad to lose them and break up the team and it & rsquo ; s really sad actually . But what has occurred here this season in the country , it & rsquo ; s part of the price that we have to pay . What happened on October 7 is the biggest incident that I & rsquo ; ve witnessed in my lifetime and we have to take things into proportion .& rdquo ; Rivero should be back , and the same may be true of Antonius Cleveland , howevervJames Webb will likely be looking for a new home next season . As for the Israeli contingent , Rafi Menco is a free agent but should return , Josh DiBartoloemo and Jake Cohen are under contract and should be back playing at Yad Eliyahu next season , while Tamir Blatt is opting out of his current contract but will most likely re - sign with the team at a higher rate . The one big question is the league and finals MVP , Sorkin . The big man is rumored to be heading to North America to try out for NBA teams after a stellar season , but there is also talk that Maccabi will make him an offer that he can & rsquo ; t refuse and he will stay yellow - and - blue for the foreseeable future .& ldquo ; Roman won every award this season ,& rdquo ; Katash said . & ldquo ; I have the privilege of coaching him . He can really do it all and has a huge upside and is one of the most talented players . He & rsquo ; s a great person as well and I & rsquo ; m very proud as to how he came into the playoffs . He was playing well in the Euroleague , but then got hurt and it just took time to get him back up to speed . He needs to be a Maccabi Tel Aviv player for the rest of his career .& rdquo ; There are plenty of names that have been linked to Maccabi and while the Euroleague home games will most probably be played once again in Belgrade , the club still remains a very attractive option for some players , explained the bench boss .& ldquo ; Next season won & rsquo ; t be easy and it was a challenge this year just in terms of scheduling . But Maccabi is a big club and has a system in place and while it won & rsquo ; t be easy to keep players and sign players , we are there .& ldquo ; We know we will lose some players but there are plenty of players who see Maccabi as an opportunity . Maccabi is a good place to play and a place where players can advance their careers .& rdquo ; It seems that the yellow - and - blue is doing exactly that , finding players who want to come play for Maccabi that have experienced Israel . Those may include Hapoel Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Randolph , Hapoel Holon big man Justin Smith along with Hapoel Tel Aviv & rsquo ; s center Jaylen Hoard , to name a few . The upcoming campaign will be complex and challenging without a doubt , but the most important thing for Maccabi will be to be able to adapt on the fly and adjust as it did this season .& ldquo ; There are a lot of question marks . In this chaotic reality , it is impossible to know what the day will bring . Things change all the time , we have to adjust ourselves & ndash ; because we are heading into a difficult year .& rdquo ;