The French Navy ' s Languedoc frigate intercepted two drones fired from a Houthi - controlled area in Yemen which were heading straight toward it on Saturday , the General Staff of the French Armed Forces said on Saturday night . The two drones were launched from near Al Hudaydah , a port city controlled by the Iran - backed Houthis , before they were intercepted about 110 km . from the coast , according to the navy . The first drone was launched at the vessel at about 10 : 30 p . m . Israel time , and the second was launched at 12 : 30 a . m . The Languedoc has been deployed in the Indian Ocean Maritime Zone since August and recently accompanied the US Navy ' s USS Dwight D . Eisenhower aircraft carried through the Strait of Hormuz into the Persian Gulf .& nbsp ; Earlier on Saturday , the spokesman for the Houthi ' s military forces , Yahya Sare ' e , threatened to attack any ship heading toward Israel , no matter which country the vessel belongs to ." In order to ensure the safety of maritime navigation , we warn all ships and companies against dealing with Israeli ports ," said Sare ' e . Houthis escalate attacks on maritime traffic in the Red Sea , Gulf of AdenIn recent weeks , the Houthis have escalated their attacks on civilian and military vessels in the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden . On Wednesday , the movement said that it launched ballistic missiles toward Eilat , with the IDF saying it intercepted a missile over the Red Sea . Additionally , the US Navy said it shot down a drone that was launched from a Houthi - controlled area of Yemen . A few days earlier , three commercial vessels came under attack in the southern Red Sea , with the Houthis saying they had conducted drone and missile attacks against two Israeli vessels . The IDF later said that the two ships were not connected to Israel . US Central Command ( CENTCOM ) said at the time that four attacks had been conducted against three separate commercial vessels in the southern Red Sea . The three vessels are connected to 14 different countries . According to CENTCOM , the Arleigh - Burke Class destroyer USS Carney responded to distress calls issued by the ships and provided assistance . While responding to the calls , the destroyer shot down a drone launched from Houthi controlled areas . Although the drone was headed toward the Carney , its specific target is not clear . No damage was caused to the US vessel and no injuries were reported ." These attacks represent a direct threat to international commerce and maritime security ," said CENTCOM at the time . " They have jeopardized the lives of international crews representing multiple countries around the world ." We also have every reason to believe that these attacks , while launched by the Houthis in Yemen , are fully enabled by Iran ,"& nbsp ; it said . " The United States will consider all appropriate responses in full coordination with its international allies and partners ."