There are a lot of characters & ndash ; and a lot of questions & ndash ; introduced in the early parts of the new series The 11th Body from Keshet 12 , the first episode of which premiered on Monday after the news and the second aired on Wednesday . But if you concentrate on Maggie Azerzer & rsquo ; s lead performance as Iris , a troubled police detective , you can enjoy her work and trust that eventually you & rsquo ; ll absorb all the details of what & rsquo ; s going on . Iris is a divorced mother in Haifa . Her ex is having her investigated for faulty parenting , her father ( Gavri Banai ) is senile and is about to be kicked out of his assisted living facility because he requires too much assistance , and her sometime lover ( Hisham Suliman ) can & rsquo ; t commit to her for reasons she understands but isn & rsquo ; t happy about .& nbsp ; She doesn & rsquo ; t have too many friends at the police station where she works , because she raised complaints about other cops & rsquo ; excessive violence . Crime families of various ethnicities are hovering in the background of her professional life & ndash ; and sometimes the foreground . One morning , she has to investigate a strange call from the medical faculty at the Technion : The anatomy class has found an extra body , and no one knows where it came from . While her colleagues try to dismiss the deceased John Doe , her investigator & rsquo ; s skill kicks into gear and she vows to get to the bottom of it . Azerzer is so tough as the put - upon Iris that while she isn & rsquo ; t easy to like , you admire her and root for her . One footnote to the show is that , as far as I know , this is the first drama to show how wild boars have overrun parts of Haifa & ndash ; and as they pass by , a character quips : & ldquo ; New neighbors ?& rdquo ; IF YOU & rsquo ; D rather watch a detective story in English , try The Long Goodbye on Amazon & rsquo ; s Prime Video and Apple TV +, which brought together three great talents who created one of the best , most offbeat detective films of all time : Raymond Chandler , whose novel of the same name is the basis for the movie ; Robert Altman , who adapted and directed the film ; and Elliott Gould , who starred in it . Altman figured out that Chandler was made to be updated for the post - Vietnam era ( the book was published in 1953 ), and that Gould was born to play the cynical but romantic detective - fiction hero , Philip Marlowe . The movie has a sprawling plot that mixes the glaring daylight of Los Angeles with its dark shadows , and it involves Marlowe trying to help his friend Terry ( Jim Bouton ), who has been accused of killing his wife , and then veers off into a story about an Ernest Hemingway - type writer ( Sterling Hayden ), who has disappeared , and his distressed wife ( Nina van Pallandt ), who is trying to find him . The cast features a number of people who were known and / or notorious off screen , notably Bouton , an ex - baseball player who wrote a tell - all book , and van Pallandt , who became famous as the mistress of the Howard Hughes biography hoaxer Clifford Irving .& nbsp ; Mark Rydell is best known as a director , and he plays a mobster mixed up in all of this , who is rather creepily portrayed as an observant Jew , and who commits the movie & rsquo ; s most shocking act of violence and gets to utter the most memorable line afterwards .& nbsp ; But you don & rsquo ; t have to know any of this backstory to enjoy Gould & rsquo ; s awkward charm and wisecracks . The movie & rsquo ; s opening features one of the funniest scenes ever filmed involving a cat & ndash ; and it reveals a lot about Marlowe & rsquo ; s character , too . After those first few minutes , you know him better than you know most movie heroes after an hour . Netflix ' s ' Mother of the Bride ' NETFLIX & rsquo ; S Mother of the Bride , which stars Brooke Shields , is a ( very ) watered - down version of Mamma Mia ! & ndash ; with all the elements that made that movie so successful , because it plays into a child & rsquo ; s fantasy of their estranged parents getting back together . Like Mamma Mia !, Ticket to Paradise , and so many other movies , it features a young couple holding a hastily arranged destination wedding & ndash ; in this case , it & rsquo ; s in Thailand & ndash ; that throws two exes among the couple & rsquo ; s parents together . You could set your watch by the predictable plot developments , but you & rsquo ; ll likely watch it to the end if you start it , because it & rsquo ; s an efficiently constructed entertainment machine , like a pop tune you can & rsquo ; t get out of your head even if it annoys you . Mother of the Bride stars a lot of actors who , like Shields , were A - listers a while ago and haven & rsquo ; t been on screen that much lately . There is an air of palpable gratitude among the cast at finding themselves back on camera .& nbsp ; Shields , who , it turned out , had a flair for comedy that she demonstrated in the Suddenly Susan series over 20 year ago , plays & ldquo ; world - renowned geneticist & rdquo ; Lana , a widowed control freak workaholic whose daughter , Emma ( Miranda Cosgrove , best known for the series iCarly ), decides to marry at a beach resort after her boyfriend , RJ ( Sean Teale ), suddenly proposes . It turns out that RJ & rsquo ; s father , Will ( Benjamin Bratt , who played one of the police detectives on the early iterations of Law & amp ; Order ), was the great love of Lana & rsquo ; s life and he dumped her after college without a word . Did you guess that he is now a billionaire venture capitalist ? So , by now , you have likely either started streaming the movie or stopped reading this , but if you need to know more , Michael McDonald plays Lana & rsquo ; s wisecracking gay best friend , Rachael Harris is her wisecracking straight best friend , and Chad Michael Murray plays the instantly smitten doctor who briefly challenges Will for Lana & rsquo ; s affections . Murray was memorable in the role of Jake , the teen dream in Freaky Friday who falls for Jamie Lee Curtis when her daughter takes over her body ( you can stream that movie on Disney + or Apple TV +). The tiny amount of new content in this old story is about Emma surrendering control of her wedding to a mean wedding planner in order to win & ldquo ; likes & rdquo ; on Instagram & ndash ; and I won & rsquo ; t be spoiling anything to reveal that Emma eventually learns the value of spending time with family and trusting her own taste .& nbsp ; There is a scene where a couple falls into a pool and everyone jumps in after them , another where the exes get stranded in a picturesque location , and a credits sequence where the cast performs a dance to a pop tune . If Shields wasn & rsquo ; t so likable , it wouldn & rsquo ; t work , but somehow it does .