Thousands of protesters gathered at dozens of locations across Israel on Saturday night calling for a hostage deal and elections just hours after news of the rescue of the four hostages & ndash ; Noa Argamani , Almog Meir Jan , Andrey Kozlov , and Shlomi Ziv & ndash ; broke . Demonstrators turned up in Tel Aviv , Beersheba , Ra & rsquo ; anana , Haifa , Caesarea , Karkur , Jerusalem , and other locations around the country . In Tel Aviv alone , according to organizers , tens of thousands attended . The protests in Tel Aviv ended late Saturday night . According to the Israel Police , several hundred protesters violated public order , lit bonfires , and engaged with the police in clashes . This resulted in the arrest of 33 of the demonstrators .& nbsp ; Hostages released today told their family members that , while in captivity , they saw the protests and knew that people were fighting for them at home , according to the N12 news site . Organizers used this report as a rallying cry to encourage Israelis to take to the streets on Saturday night , and , alongside the celebration of the rescue , continue to fight for the 120 hostages still remaining in Hamas captivity . Mother vows to fightEinav Zangauker spoke at a protest in Tel Aviv , addressing her son , Matan , who is still being held hostage , telling him that she will & ldquo ; not let the prime minister torpedo the [ hostage ] deal .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; My Matan , if you can hear me , I will fight for you day and night . I will not rest and I will not be silent ,& rdquo ; she said .& ldquo ; I want to shift from the momentary and important euphoria to the challenge we are facing and the depth of the strategic failure we are in ,& rdquo ; said former IDF intelligence chief Lt .- Gen Amos Malka , speaking at a protest in Tel Aviv .& ldquo ; Woe to the captains of the country if they use this uplifting moment for political gain . Blatantly ignoring a strategic , diplomatic possibility would mean missing another lever of pressure and distancing us from the countries of the world toward dangerous international isolation ,& rdquo ; he added .