NEW YORK - Christie & rsquo ; s is honoured to announce A Hundred Years of Art in Israel : A Selection of Important Art from the Phoenix Group Collection , an exhibition of more than 70 objects . This exhibition will be open to the public 10 am to 5 pm weekdays and Saturday , and 1 pm to 5 pm Sunday , through 1 March 2024 . These works have not been seen outside of Israel . The current exhibition celebrates the 75th anniversary of Phoenix Group , a leading Israeli financial services firm that has sold important works with Christie & rsquo ; s in London and New York . The Phoenix Group show is among a number of non - selling exhibitions that Christie & rsquo ; s hosts as part of its mission to celebrate artistic expression in all of its many forms . This includes non - selling exhibitions in collaboration with 1 - 54 Contemporary African Art Fair of mixed media works with a Caribbean focus at Christie & rsquo ; s London in October , and upcoming , a showcase of African art at Christie & rsquo ; s Hong Kong , 26 - 30 March . Christie & rsquo ; s is also pleased to announce that two of the works in the exhibition will be offered for sale in the May 21st Century Art sales in New York . Phoenix will dedicate proceeds from this sale to support young Israeli artists . A Hundred Years of Art in Israel includes painting , drawing , sculpture , and video works that trace the past century of Israeli culture . The pieces are grouped thematically , creating connections among periods , movements , ideologies , and media . The resulting juxtapositions enable us to see a repeated swinging back and forth between engagement with ancient Jewish culture and the reborn Hebrew one ; between yearning and fulfillment ; abstract ideas and their realization ; sanctity and secularity ; Jewish tradition and artistic avant - garde . The Chairman of Christie & rsquo ; s Americas , Marc Porter , said : & ldquo ; We are honored to bring this important exhibition to New York City , an event that is the culmination of a year of planning and more than two decades of work with the Phoenix Group , which began with the sale of its American Art Collection . I have worked in Israel my entire career , including decades on the board of the American Friends of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and I am deeply moved and gratified to be part of this notable occasion .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; The CEO of Phoenix Group , Eyal Ben Simon , said : & ldquo ; Our art collection is an expression of the pride we take in our nation & rsquo ; s history , culture , and creativity . This exhibition of a century of Israeli art is an opportunity to share works we love with the world at the crossroads of the world , New York City . We are also thrilled to announce that Phoenix Group will be offering two works at Christie & rsquo ; s in May to help us fund ongoing support for young , Israeli artists .& rdquo ; & nbsp ; Exhibition highlights :& nbsp ; On exhibition and offered for sale in May : Phoenix Group & rsquo ; s collection of Israeli art , comprised of nearly 1 , 400 works , is one of the finest and most comprehensive in its field . This treasury of artworks has played a major role in the construction and preservation of the Israeli artistic canon and has earned its place alongside the collections of Israel & rsquo ; s leading museums . Established in the early 1980s at the instigation of Joseph Hackmey , the owner and CEO of the Phoenix up to 2002 , the collection chronicles the significant pinnacles and shifts of Israeli art from its inception to today . The collection includes a large number of key works by many of Israel & rsquo ; s leading twentieth century artists , making it possible to track their development throughout their careers . Large parts of the collection have featured in exhibitions at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art ( 1998 ) and the Ashdod Art Museum ( 2006 ). It has not been comprehensively displayed since then , but individual works have been on loan to various venues , including the permanent exhibition of Israeli art at the Israel Museum in Jerusalem . & nbsp ; About Christie & rsquo ; sFounded in 1766 , Christie & rsquo ; s is a world - leading art and luxury business with a physical presence in 46 countries throughout the Americas , Europe , Middle East , and Asia Pacific , and flagship international sales hubs in New York , London , Hong Kong , Paris and Geneva . Renowned and trusted for our expert live and online - only auctions , as well as bespoke Private Sales , Christie & rsquo ; s unparalleled network of specialists offers our clients a full portfolio of global services , including art appraisal , art financing , international real estate and education . Christie & rsquo ; s auctions span more than 80 art and luxury categories , at price points ranging from $ 500 to over $ 100 million . Christie & rsquo ; s has sold 7 of the 10 most important single - owner collections in history , achieved the world record price for an artwork at auction , launched the first fully on - chain auction platform dedicated to exceptional NFT art and manages an investment fund to support innovative startups in the art market . Christie & rsquo ; s is also committed to advancing responsible culture throughout its business and communities worldwide . To learn more , browse , bid , discover , and join us for the best of art and luxury at christies . com or by downloading Christie & rsquo ; s apps .& nbsp ; Please note when quoting estimates above that other fees will apply in addition to the hammer price - see Section D of the Conditions of Sale at the back of the sale catalogue . & nbsp ;* Estimates do not include buyer & rsquo ; s premium . Sales totals are hammer price plus buyer & rsquo ; s premium .