As reports emerged on Friday morning of Gazans who fled south returning to their homes in the north of the Strip as Israel ' s ceasefire with Hamas came into effect , the IDF reiterated its warning that the situation is still dangerous , and residents should remain in the south of Gaza . IDF Arabic language spokesman Lt . Col . Avichay Adraee spoke on X ( formerly Twitter ) stating , " The war is not over yet . The humanitarian pause is temporary . The northern Gaza Strip is a dangerous war zone and it is forbidden to move north . For your safety , you must remain in the humanitarian zone in the south ."& nbsp ;⭕️ Watch this important message from the IDF Spokesperson for Arab media , @ AvichayAdraee , to the civilians of Gaza :& rdquo ; The war is not over yet . The humanitarian pause is temporary . The northern Gaza Strip is a dangerous war zone and it is forbidden to move north . For your safety ,& hellip ; https :// t . co / OmtxDYHIK3 pic . twitter . com / 4gaJDxgy5I & mdash ; Israel Defense Forces (@ IDF ) November 24 , 2023The IDF also dropped leaflets over Gaza warning residents not to return to the northern Gaza Strip as it was still considered a war zone and dangerous . Later in the morning , Palestinian media reported that three Palestinians were shot after attempting to enter northern Gaza despite the repeated warnings of the IDF not to do so . Ceasefire comes into effectThe IDF completed preparations for the ceasefire which took effect at 7 a . m . Friday morning and destroyed tunnels and tunnel entry points in Shifa Hospital , the IDF Spokesperson ' s Unit said . In the day leading up to the ceasefire , the IDF continued its operations in Gaza . Some 13 of the hostages currently held by Hamas are scheduled to be released at 4 p . m . on Friday , in a deal that was brokered with the help of Qatar and the US . Israel is expected to release 150 Palestinian prisoners , the majority of whom are female and child prisoners who are held or have been convicted on terror charges .