Two and a half weeks after the thousands of Hamas terrorists attacked southern Israel , resulting in a massacre that claimed the lives of approximately 1 , 400 people , Israel is stuck before an enemy that does not fully understand , Zvi Yehezkeli , a Channel 13 & nbsp ; Arab affairs analyst , said during an interview on 103FM radio ." We are still waiting for salvation , but nothing has changed ,& rdquo ; Yehezkeli said . & ldquo ; Hamas is still operating while we face humiliation from the international community . The release of four hostages means nothing . It begs the question , what does it take to crush Hamas ?& rdquo ;& nbsp ;& ldquo ; We are dealing with an enemy we do not fully understand , and the repercussions of the Gaza situation will extend far beyond its borders into Judea and Samaria ,& rdquo ; he added . The Palestinian existence has been shaken . After 75 years of their Nakba , they have realized that the tables can be turned ." According to Yehezkeli , the most pressing question is what Israel should do now ." The tactical debate of whether to enter or not needs to be reevaluated ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; I see Hamas functioning , and those responsible for the failures of the past 15 years are still in leadership positions . Instead , we should be asking the residents of Gaza what they want . The strip needs to be completely flattened , and Hamas must be eradicated .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; According to Yehezkeli , the army is not equipped to comprehend the Palestinians .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; We have been in a state of complacency ,& rdquo ; he said , adding that the outcome of Israel & rsquo ; s action depends on the ability of Israel to fully understand the situation . The role of IranConcerning the escalating tensions with Hezbollah , Yehezkeli said Iran is the entity responsible for the situation .& nbsp ;" Iran is the force behind Hamas ; they would not have acted without Iranian support ,& rdquo ; he highlighted . & ldquo ; I have hope in Biden supporting us , but the question is whether he will be aggressive in this matter . Nasrallah will continue to provoke until we stand firm . He won ' t engage in an all - out conflict , but once they enter the strip , the situation in the north will change . This poses a threat that is a thousand times more dangerous than Hamas ."