Actress Mouna Hawa , famous for her role in the award - winning series Fauda , has called descriptions of the Hamas massacres on October 7 " propaganda ," according to some screenshots of an exchange of messages published by Israel Hayom . Hawa gained international recognition for her portrayal of Amal , an Arab widow seeking revenge after her husband is killed during their wedding party in the first season of Fauda . She is also the recipient of an Ophir Award . The report explains that the exchange took place after a classmate of Hawa from film school confronted her about a post on social media accusing Israel of cutting off water access to 2 . 2 million people and predicting hundreds of thousands of deaths due to dehydration unless the " apartheid regime " restored access . When confronted by the classmate about her allegations , the actress denied the veracity of some of the atrocities committed by Hamas , claiming that " there was insufficient evidence ."& ldquo ; There is no concrete evidence of rape or murder ,& rdquo ; she wrote . & ldquo ; This is propaganda to gain sympathy . Hamas is not responsible for the immediate deaths of the Palestinian people . Palestinians have been dying for years , but suddenly you are concerned ?" She further questioned her classmate ' s lack of awareness regarding the ongoing killings of Palestinians and emphasized that the situation was a consequence of Israeli occupation and imprisonment .& nbsp ; Hawa concluded by requesting her classmate not to contact her if they couldn ' t understand her viewpoint .' My words were taken out of context ' Reached for comment by Israel Hayom , however , Hawa said that the exchange happened at a time when the atrocities had not yet been confirmed by the Israeli authorities and her words were taken out of context ." I have never supported harm to civilians , women , or babies ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; My moral position , which I held before and during the war , is clear : no innocent person should be harmed . This is particularly relevant to the atrocities that occurred in the Gaza border communities .& ldquo ; The conversation mentioned was taken out of context and represents a private discussion ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; At the time , there were reports in the international media questioning the accuracy of the claims of beheadings and rape . Even the IDF spokesperson did not confirm these statements . While we cannot determine all the facts definitively , it is evident that the situation is disastrous , regardless of beheadings .& rdquo ;& nbsp ;& ldquo ; Acts such as rape , beheading , and harming children should be condemned without exception , regardless of who commits them ,& rdquo ; she further said . & ldquo ; I have not made any statements justifying the massacre of civilians , and any attempt to cherry - pick from a private conversation is a deliberate attack on my reputation ." Last month , another Israeli - Arab actress , Maisa Abd Elhadi , was indicted by Israeli authorities for her statements in support of Hamas .