& ldquo ; I played sports ever since I was a child . I used to play soccer but mainly basketball , as I have been blessed with a height of 1 . 95 meters ,& rdquo ; said Saleh Shaheen , 41 , a Druze paralympic athlete from Shfaram . Shaheen & rsquo ; s life began in a typical fashion . He enlisted in the IDF in 2003 as a paratrooper and also served as a commander . After his mandatory service , he enrolled in a course led by the Airports Authority and worked at the Karni Terminal on the border of the Gaza Strip as a security guard .& ldquo ; Then , on January 13 , 2005 , my life changed in just one night .& rdquo ; Three terrorists from Hamas , the PFLP , and the Al - Aqsa Martyrs Brigade penetrated the Karni Terminal by planting an explosive device in the wall ; they killed six civilians .& ldquo ; I arrived at the area of the explosion to fight the terrorists , but it was pitch dark , as electricity was down due to the explosion , leaving me exposed . I faced the first terrorist , and we exchanged fire . He shot four bullets towards my left leg , also damaging my stomach and intestines ,& rdquo ; Shaheen said .& ldquo ; It was pretty serious damage , though I didn & rsquo ; t feel at all that I was injured . I shot , and the terrorist and I fell together . Two other terrorists infiltrated , and the rest of the security guards arrived . There I was , with a dead terrorist lying next to me and an exchange of fire taking place between the guards and the terrorists over my head . I managed , with my last bit of strength , to crawl and make it to safety , where another Druze security guard saw me . He tried to lift me , but I weighed 115 kilos , so it took him two or three more attempts until he managed and brought me to the back office .& ldquo ; They put me in an ambulance and sped to Soroka [ Hospital ]. I remember the ride ; it & rsquo ; s probably the longest one I & rsquo ; ve ever had in my life . I started to feel the pain . I wanted to fall asleep , but the medic wouldn & rsquo ; t let me . When the ambulance door opened , I put my hand over my face so that no one would recognize me , and there & rsquo ; s a famous picture showing that scene . I was in the operating room for 17 hours straight . When I woke up , I saw my parents next to me and began to fathom what had happened . I tore a main artery in my leg , and somehow , I stayed alive .& rdquo ; Shaheen stayed for three more weeks in Soroka until his situation was stabilized , and then he was sent to Rambam in Haifa , which was more convenient for his family . & ldquo ; I spent three challenging months at Rambam , and although many people came to visit , it wasn & rsquo ; t a particularly easy time for me . I got metal implants for my legs , and I needed to train to rehabilitate them so I could attempt to go back to sports . My entire life revolved around sports until that point ,& rdquo ; he reminisced . First steps in Paralympic sports An acquaintance approached Shaheen a little over five years ago and suggested he try wheelchair basketball . & ldquo ; It seemed unnatural to me at first ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; I tried and fell several times and ended up thinking that I don & rsquo ; t have the strength for more falls and injuries and recovering . At end of the day , I had learned to accept my injury and looked at it as my fate . I told myself that I must get up ; I can & rsquo ; t stay in the same place . So I continued training and playing wheelchair basketball in Haifa and Tel Aviv , and even tried out wheelchair badminton .& rdquo ; Shaheen ended up joining a mixed Jewish - Arab group in Majd Al - Kroum in the North , winning a national cup in the first year and making it to the Premier League . In 2019 , Shaheen was approached again , this time with an offer to join paralympic rowing . & ldquo ; I had no idea what it was at first . I was told that it involved two training sessions every day and much traveling ,& rdquo ; he recounted . & ldquo ; I hesitated at first , but I saw the challenging aspects and took my abilities to the limit , and decided that this is a sport I want to be a part of .& rdquo ; Shaheen started training with a group of four , but then the condition of his leg deteriorated . The implant fell out , and he was hospitalized again & ndash ; until he was classified as PR2 , which is defined as having functional use of arms and trunk but with weakness or absence of leg function to slide the seat of the boat , rowing on a double boat for a duo of a man and a woman .& ldquo ; When I started this classification , they were only missing a female rower , and I was on hold for a while . Then , one day , I received a call saying that they found a young woman , Shahar Milfelder , who had cancer at the age of 16 and had to have part of her pelvis removed . I jumped right in and went back to rowing .& rdquo ; Shaheen and Milfelder began training together only two years ago . & ldquo ; Every day , I drive around 230 kilometers , wake up at five in the morning , perform two training sessions , and go back . This routine is very demanding , especially at the expense of family and work . I own a convenience store and had to hire a local employee so that I could be devoted to sports alone ,& rdquo ; Shaheen explained . Supported by scholarships and aid from the Israel Paralympic Committee , Shaheen and Milfelder made a significant leap and advanced to the World Championship less than a year ago . There , they missed the chance to get a ticket to the Paralympic games due to some changes in categories for qualifications .& ldquo ; We missed the ticket by 30 hundredths of a second and even came in first place in the second round ; we were really bummed . Then , two weeks ago , there was a & lsquo ; last chance & rsquo ; competition for the last two tickets . People believed in us ; we arrived as prepared as we could be . Then we finished first in the first round , and in the second one , we finished second with a difference of 40 hundredths of a second .& rdquo ; This was enough to send the duo to the Paralympic Games . & ldquo ; I was literally in tears ,& rdquo ; said Shaheen . & ldquo ; Now we are getting back to preparing for the Olympics . Next month , we will fly for a long training camp , and then in August , we will move to Paris to give our performance at the Olympics . I want to thank the Paralympics Association for its trust and support in all fields , from nutrition to treatments , scholarships , and even travel reimbursements .& rdquo ; Back at home , Shaheen said that his community had barely heard of this branch of sports . & ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s not really well known in my society . Not many people at home contacted me , except the sports department in the municipality . Truth be told , I myself didn & rsquo ; t know anything about it before I started , and I didn & rsquo ; t realize how fascinating and challenging the world of rowing can be .& rdquo ; For this reason , Shaheen said he hopes to change things in the future .& ldquo ; Hopefully , after the Olympics , I will work to promote rowing in Israel generally and in the North more specifically ,& rdquo ; he said . Asked what he is looking forward to most , Shaheen said that , more than anything , he is excited to leave a mark in history . & ldquo ; My message is that to achieve your dreams , you must stop everything and focus on the goal . It & rsquo ; s true that I had to put my business to the side and that it comes at the expense of other things . But this is what it takes to make your dream come true .& rdquo ;