Egypt has sent a convoy of engineers and building equipment to Gaza to begin reconstruction in the Palestinian enclave after the recent Israeli - Palestinian conflict , Egyptian state television reported on Friday .

Dozens of bulldozers , cranes and trucks flying Egyptian flags lined up along the border to begin crossing into the Gaza Strip , television pictures showed .

Palestinians lined the street on the Gaza side of the Rafah crossing to welcome the convoy as it rumbled into the small coastal enclave . A Palestinian border official said 50 vehicles had crossed .

& quot ; We rushed with all our money , equipment , and what we owned to join the Palestinians in the rebuilding . Every Muslim and every Egyptian wishes to take part in [ the reconstruction ],& quot ; Egyptian truck driver Mahmoud Ismail told Reuters in Gaza .

Eleven days of conflict between Israel and Hamas , the Palestinian Islamist rulers of Gaza , erupted on May 10 . More than 250 Palestinians were killed in hundreds of Israeli air strikes in Gaza . Rockets fired by Gaza militants killed 13 people in Israel .

Egypt played a major role in brokering a ceasefire between both sides and has said it would allocate $ 500 million to fund the rebuilding of devastated areas in Gaza .

Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem on Friday reiterated the group @@@ s appreciation of Egyptian contributions to the rebuilding efforts .

Gaza & rsquo ; s housing ministry said 1 , 500 housing units were destroyed during the fighting , another 1 , 500 housing units had been damaged beyond repair and 17 , 000 suffered partial damage . A ministry official put the cost of rebuilding at $ 150 million .

Egypt in February opened the Rafah crossing until further notice after Palestinian factions moved towards reconciliation following talks in Cairo .
It had previously been opening the crossing for only a few days at a time to allow stranded travelers to pass . The 365 - sq km ( 141 - sq mile ) Gaza Strip , controlled by Hamas , is home to around 2 million Palestinians . An Israeli - led blockade has put restrictions on the movement of people and goods for years .