The Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) organization announced on Saturday that 19 of its members were killed during the 11 - days of fighting between Israel and the Gaza - based terrorist groups .

The Hamas - run Health Ministry , meanwhile , announced that 243 Palestinians were killed and more than 1 , 900 injured during the fighting with Israel . It said that the victims included 66 children and 39 women .

It was not clear whether the figures included Hamas and PIJ members .

The PIJ & rsquo ; s military wing , al - Quds Brigades , said in a statement that its members were killed & ldquo ; while performing their Jihad ( holy war ) during the & lsquo ; Sword of Jerusalem & rsquo ; battle .& rdquo ;

The group published the names of all the slain PIJ members . They include senior military operatives such as Husam Abu - Harbid , 37 , commander of the northern Gaza Strip region , Sameh al - Mamlouk , 34 , commander of the rocket unit in the northern Gaza Strip , and Mohammed Abu al - Ata , 30 and Kamal Qureiqi , 34 , senior commanders of one of the group & rsquo ; s rocket unit in the Gaza Strip .

Photos of the slain PIJ members dressed in military uniform appeared in the statement published by the al - Quds Brigades .

& ldquo ; The al - Quds Brigades affirm that their blood will remain a shining light for the mujahedin ( warriors ) towards the path of glory and dignity ,& rdquo ; the statement read . & ldquo ; We will proceed with the path of resistance until the liberation of all beloved Palestine .& rdquo ;

Shortly after the ceasefire between Israel and the Gaza - based factions went into effect on Friday morning , PIJ General - Secretary Ziyad al - Nakhaleh and Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh received separate phone calls from Hossein Salami , commander - in - chief of Iran & rsquo ; s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps , congratulating them on the & ldquo ; big victory & rdquo ; achieved by the Palestinians during the fighting .

Salami expressed Iran & rsquo ; s readiness to provide the Palestinian terrorist groups & ldquo ; with whatever help necessary in the field ,& rdquo ; according to a statement by the Iranian Tasnim News Agency .

Speaking to Haniyeh , the Iranian military commander said that his country is ready & ldquo ; to provide all kinds of assistance to the Palestinian nation and resistance forces in all areas and it will spare no effort in this regard .& rdquo ;

During the call with the PIJ leader , Salami stressed that the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps & ldquo ; will never leave the Palestinian nation alone .& rdquo ;

In a speech on Friday , Haniyeh , who is based in Qatar , congratulated the Palestinians on the & ldquo ; great victory by the brave resistance .& rdquo ;

He said that & ldquo ; the Palestinian people everywhere proved to the whole world that al - Aqsa Mosque belongs to us and that Jerusalem is a red line . This victory is one phase in the conflict with the Zionist enemy .& rdquo ;

He added : & ldquo ; Thank God who has brought happiness to the hearts of our people , our nation , and the free people of the world . The Gaza Strip erupted to defend Jerusalem and al - Aqsa Mosque .& rdquo ;