The Israeli - Palestinian conflict is one of the most well - known conflicts around the world .& nbsp ; Since its beginning shortly after the birth of the State of Israel , the conflict has dominated regional geopolitics for over 70 years . And as the ongoing Israel - Hamas War shows , the conflict ' s importance and intensity show no sign of slowing down .& nbsp ; But what is the Israeli - Palestinian conflict ? Where did it start ? Who are the key players involved ?& nbsp ; Here is everything you need to know . Where is Israel ? Israel is a country in the Middle East , specifically in the Levant region . It is steeped in thousands of years of history and has been the home of numerous civilizations and religious faiths . Israel is bordered by Egypt , Jordan , Lebanon , Syria , and the Palestinian territories and is on the coast of both the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea .& nbsp ; While most countries consider its capital to be Tel Aviv , Israel and a few other countries , such as the United States , recognize Jerusalem as the capital . Where is Palestine ? Palestine is a self - proclaimed country , recognized largely as the Palestinian territories , located in the Middle East , specifically on the west bank of the Jordan River ( known colloquially as the West Bank ) and in a region along the Mediterranean coast known as the Gaza Strip . It is bordered by Israel , Jordan , and Egypt , with the Gaza Strip being on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea .& nbsp ; Though it proclaims Jerusalem as its capital , its de facto capital is Ramallah in the West Bank . Where is Gaza ? Gaza , known as the Gaza Strip , is a part of the Palestinian territories and is located along the Mediterranean coast . It borders Israel and Egypt and has three border crossings : the Erez and Kerem Shalom crossings with Israel and the Rafah crossing with Egypt . Has Israel recognized Palestine ? Israel has refused to recognize a Palestinian state , though progress had been made following the Oslo Accords .& nbsp ; Currently , Israel officially supports the idea of a two - state solution . Still , it is at odds with the proposed Palestinian borders , as well as the issue of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and the possibility of Palestinian terrorist attacks against Israel .& nbsp ; However , Israel does recognize Palestinian control over certain parts of the West Bank . Does Palestine recognize Israel ? Palestine technically does recognize Israel , with then - Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat announcing it as such in 1988 . This was reaffirmed following the signing of the Oslo Accords . However , the Palestinian leadership continues to have strong opposition to the State of Israel , and many Palestinian factions disagree with the recognition of Israel . Israel is oftentimes referred to by these bodies as the " Zionist occupation ." What is the Palestinian Authority ? The Palestinian Authority is the official ruling entity in the Palestinian territories . It is led by President Mahmoud Abbas and is controlled by his Fatah party .& nbsp ; The PA is based in Ramallah and exercises control over the Palestinian - run areas of the West Bank , as well as claiming control over the Gaza Strip .& nbsp ; The government was meant to be an interim body rather than a permanent political entity .& nbsp ; Officially a democracy , the Palestinian Authority is , in practice , an authoritarian entity , not having had elections since 2006 , with further attempts at having elections never actually manifesting .& nbsp ; Abbas was elected to a four - year term in 2005 , though his term in office has continued for almost two decades at the time of writing .& nbsp ; The PA has also been accused of violating human rights , censoring a free press , and engaging in widespread corruption .& nbsp ; Currently , the PA is fractured following the 2006 Palestinian parliamentary elections , which saw the terrorist group and party Hamas win control of the parliament . Since then , a schism has erupted between Fatah and Hamas , and attempts at mending this split have been unsuccessful . What is Hamas ? Hamas is a Palestinian Islamist terrorist group that was founded in 1987 by Ahmed Yassin . Its origins lie in a Muslim charity organization , Mujama al - Islamiya , affiliated with the Muslim Brotherhood organization .& nbsp ; Since its official founding in 1987 , Hamas has become infamous for its terrorist activities and its staunch refusal to recognize Israel ' s right to exist .& nbsp ; Hamas won the 2006 Palestinian parliamentary elections , but the Palestinian Authority dissolved the government and replaced it with a Fatah - led one , leading to the schism mentioned above . Hamas has fought several armed conflicts with Israel since taking over Gaza , with the current ongoing war being sparked by Hamas ' s attack on southern Israel on October 7 , 2023 , which saw 1 , 200 people in Israel killed and 250 people taken hostage .& nbsp ; Hamas ' s leadership is spread out between Gaza and Qatar . Its leader in Gaza is Yahya Sinwar , while the organization ' s overall political leader is Ismail Haniyeh . When did the Israeli - Palestinian conflict begin ? The starting point of the Israeli - Palestinian conflict is the subject of fierce debate since many believe the Palestinian national identity didn ' t begin until the middle of the 20th century . In contrast , others believe the Israeli national identity did not technically exist until the establishment of the State of Israel .& nbsp ; What is agreed upon , though , is that Jews and Arabs have conflicted with one another in the region since the late 19th and early 20th centuries .& nbsp ; This coincided with the arrival of Jewish Zionist settlers into the future State of Israel to escape antisemitic persecution in Europe . At the time , the land was ruled over by the Ottoman Empire , though by the end of World War I , the British took it over and instituted the British Mandate of Palestine .& nbsp ; Over the coming decades , the two demographics would grow increasingly in conflict as tensions grew , with the Arabs staging multiple revolts in the mandate . In 1947 , a plan was proposed by the British to partition Israel into Jewish and Arab states . The Jews agreed , but the Arabs did not .& nbsp ; A year later , Israel declared independence , and war was declared . Surrounded on all sides by enemy nations , Israel proved victorious , and many Arabs ended up fleeing their homes - an event Palestinians refer to today as the Nakba .& nbsp ; Tensions exploded in the late 1980s as Palestinians launched the First Intifada , an uprising aimed at lashing out at what they perceived as an oppressive Israeli occupation . The intifada ended with the signing of the Oslo Accords , which many hoped would lead to a lasting peace . However , fierce opposition by hardliners among both Israelis and Palestinians prevented this , particularly with the assassination of Israeli prime minister Yitzhak Rabin and the election of a new right - wing Israeli government . In 2000 , the Second Intifada started up , lasting several years and seeing multiple casualties . It ultimately ended following the unilateral Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip , though it continues to have control over Gaza ' s borders and airspace . While the most visible part of the conflict now takes place in Gaza , there is still considerable tension among Israelis and Palestinians in the West Bank and east Jerusalem , where terrorist attacks and bouts of violence still occur . Are Israel and Palestine fighting over Gaza ? The ongoing Israel - Hamas War is fought largely in the Gaza Strip , but it is not a fight " over " Gaza . Only a small minority of Israeli lawmakers are calling for the full annexation of Gaza . Rather , the ongoing war is over the eradication of Hamas and the freeing of the hostages held in Gaza .