The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed the petition filed by human rights organizations on behalf of the parents of Iyad al - Halak , who was killed by an Israeli police officer four years ago in Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Old CityThe petition was against the decision of the Police Investigation Department and the State Attorney & rsquo ; s Office not to appeal the Jerusalem District Court & rsquo ; s ruling that acquitted the Border Police officer who killed Halak in May 2020 . According to the investigation , Halak , 32 , was walking to the special needs school where he both worked and studied . He noticed two police officers shouting and running toward him and immediately ran off . Police gave chase and fired two shots in Halak & rsquo ; s direction . He kept running and eventually went into a nearby shed , where another officer opened fire and wounded him . A third officer reportedly shot Halak while he was lying on the ground , killing him instantly . Following a police investigation in October 2020 , the officer who shot Halak dead was charged with manslaughter , which Adalah , an Arab minority rights group , says almost never occurs . However , the officer was acquitted on all charges in July 2023 . The officer & rsquo ; s claim of & ldquo ; perceived self - defense & rdquo ; was accepted by the court as legitimate . Following the ruling , Adalah and the Meezan Organization for Human Rights ( Nazareth ) filed a petition on behalf of Halak & rsquo ; s parents , claiming that the decision was extremely unreasonable and warranted Supreme Court review . & nbsp ; Setting a new precedentThe petition argued that the court & rsquo ; s ruling set new legal norms , and failing to challenge them would have significant legal consequences . According to the petition , the decision effectively lowers the threshold for the justifiable use of lethal force by police officers , which could virtually eliminate all criminal accountability in cases where Palestinians are killed by law enforcement . In addition , the petition argued that the judgment unreasonably expands the parameters of self - defense in criminal law , relying solely on the officer & rsquo ; s subjective perception of danger . The Supreme Court reviewed the arguments and rejected the need for an appeal . Justices David Mintz , Khaled Kabub , and Ruth Ronnen handed down the judgment unanimously . Most cases in the Supreme Court are overseen by three of the 15 sitting justices , with only major cases receiving the full attention of the court . The Supreme Court said that there was no basis for judicial interference and that it would only do so in highly exceptional and exceedingly rare cases . The court rejected arguments that the Police or the State Attorney & rsquo ; s Office had been influenced by outside factors . The court also dismissed the petition & rsquo ; s assertion that it would set a legal precedent .