Two of Israel & rsquo ; s top international law officials have published a rare public article to challenge the International Criminal Court prosecution and others who say that Israel still illegally occupies Gaza .

The article , published in the journal Iyunei Mishpat ( Legal Studies ) recently but being reported now for the first time in English , is important both regarding addressing cases of alleged Israeli war crimes in ongoing fighting with Hamas , as well as regarding what humanitarian obligations Jerusalem has to Gaza , during coronavirus and other periods .

These issues ultimately have major long - term implications at the national security and diplomatic levels , including whether Israel & rsquo ; s naval blockade and other periodic closures of Gaza are legal .

Just as important are the authors : Deputy Attorney - General ( International Law ) Roy Schondorf and IDF International Law Division chief Col . Eran Shamir - Borer , two officials who have led much of Israel & rsquo ; s handling of ICC issues and humanitarian dilemmas with Gaza .

Schondorf rarely writes publicly or appears in public with the exception of specific conferences or at the Knesset , and Shamir - Borer appears even less often .

It seems that the impetus for their article was to address prior statements by ICC Prosecutor Fatou Bensouda as well as a current article by prominent Israeli prof . Eyal Gross in the same journal , declaring that Israel still legally occupies Gaza , despite having withdrawn in 2005 .

If Bensouda , Gross and a number of Israeli critics in UN and international bodies are correct that Israel occupies Gaza , it could mean that the Jewish state might be restricted in what categories of force it could use to combat Hamas attacks , let alone protests or riots on the border .

Further , it could mean that any humanitarian crisis in Gaza puts Israel at fault .

When there are debates about Israeli blockades to prevent rockets and other weapons smuggling , these legal questions could have a decisive impact .

Essentially , Bensouda , Gross and much of the international community say that it is irrelevant that the IDF withdrew and that Israel withdrew its settlements from within the Gaza Strip .

Rather , they argue that UN General Assembly decisions , International Committee of the Red Cross ( ICRC ) guidance , a decision by the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia ( ICTY ) and other points prove that Israel can & ldquo ; occupy & rdquo ; Gaza as long as it exerts functional control .

To support their argument , they note that Israel controls Gaza & rsquo ; s airspace , maritime borders , wherever there is a blockade , and most of its land borders . Gaza does have one border crossing with Egypt .

They broaden these arguments by saying that Israel & rsquo ; s ability to control Gaza & rsquo ; s interactions with the outside world means it can also control the economic and humanitarian situation there .

In this light , they say that Israel is also obligated to maintain Gaza from a humanitarian perspective , whether with special needs during coronavirus times or with sufficient medical , food , utilities and other items during more normal periods .

IN CONTRAST , Schondorf and Shamir - Bohrer say that there is no basis to rely on the decisions of the UN General Assembly or other political bodies to decide international law .

Regarding the ICTY decision , they say that critics & rsquo ; understanding of the decisions is misplaced .

In the ICTY case in question , the court was dealing with a situation where a foreign state controlled an internal group within another state in order to impose its will on the other state .

In any event , the Israeli officials & rsquo ; article says that the ICTY decision was an outlier creating a new doctrine which no one else has adopted .

Moreover , the article says that the ideas Israeli critics are bringing to the Gaza question are & ldquo ; wishful thinking & rdquo ; or & ldquo ; aspirations & rdquo ; to create a new law which does not exist .

Instead , they say that to be considered an & ldquo ; occupier ,& rdquo ; a country cannot merely have aspects of functional power over a territory .

Rather , it must have at a minimum & ldquo ; effective control .& rdquo ;

This traditionally has required boots on the ground and , at the very least , involvement in running the day - to - day affairs of the foreign territory and population .

As the article says , Israel has zero involvement in running Gaza & rsquo ; s day - to - day affairs , which are run by Hamas .

Further , the article cites a legal brief filed by Germany in the Israel - Palestinian proceedings before the ICC to support its views .

All of this means that Israel has not occupied Gaza since 2005 .

Rather , when Israel facilitates food , economic and medical aid to Gaza , it is on a voluntary humanitarian basis and balanced along with valid security considerations , says the article .

In December 2019 , Bensouda requested that the ICC Pretrial Chamber endorse by March her desire to conduct a full criminal probe of Israel and Hamas regarding the 2014 Gaza War , the 2018 Gaza border crisis and the settlement enterprise .

The chamber has still not decided the issue , with the question remaining whether it will decide after US President - elect Joe Biden takes office or wait for Bensouda & rsquo ; s successor to take over in June 2021 .