MK Benny Gantz ' s political future remained stable while Netanyahu ' s leadership remained in doubt : An election poll conducted by Maariv and political pollster Dr . Menachem Lazar uncovered what the political landscape would look like had elections been held today .& nbsp ; The National Unity Party , led by MK Benny Gantz , continued to weaken despite its boost following the outbreak of the Israel - Hamas war and Gantz ' s entry into the government . National Unity would see a decrease of two mandates ( decreasing to 33 from the last poll ' s 35 seats ). At the same time , the Likud Party , headed by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , slowly recovered two more seats to be positioned at 19 mandates .& nbsp ; MK Gideon Sa ' ar , who left National Unity and quit the coalition in mid - March to form his own party , New Hope & mdash ; The National Right , is predicted to rise above the electoral threshold with four mandates .& nbsp ; Sa ' ar remains in , Smotrich outWhile Sa ' ar is predicted to remain in the Knesset , others are less fortunate . Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich , who heads the Religious Zionist Party , is expected to not pass the threshold with merely 2 . 9 % of the vote .& nbsp ; Other religious parties expected to remain in the Knesset include United Torah Judaism , who could gain up to one more seat , and in general , most parties remain unchanged in the Knesset ' s seat distribution since the last polls .& nbsp ; Regarding potential coalition formations , the opposition and coalition are weakened by two mandates each due to Sa ' ar ' s incoming bloc of four seats , leading to a projected balance of 65 mandates for the current opposition and 46 mandates for the current coalition government .& nbsp ; Along with polling for the distribution of mandates in the Knesset , respondents were asked about leadership and who they deemed fit to lead Israel as prime minister . These results remained similar to last week ' s , with 45 % of respondents supporting a Gantz premiership , while support for Netanyahu as prime minister decreased by four points , currently at 34 %.& nbsp ; Dr . Lazar is a political pollster , public opinion specialist , and CEO at Panels Politics , and conducted the electoral poll in cooperation with a panel of internet respondents using the site Panel4All . co . il .& nbsp ; The survey was conducted between March 27 and 28 , 2024 , and was answered by 503 respondents representative of the State of Israel ' s population . Respondents included Israelis over 18 and Jews and Arabs . The margin of error in this survey stood at 4 . 4 %.& nbsp ;