There was something about the story of the murder of a mother and two daughters during the Passover holiday last year that imprinted itself on the consciousness of the nation and catapulted Rabbi Leo Dee , the grieving husband and father , to international prominence . On April 7 , 2023 , Lucy Dee and her daughters Maia , 20 , and Rina , 15 , were driving to Tiberias over Hol Hamoed , the intermediate days of the week - long festival . Their vehicle was rammed off the road by terrorist gunmen , who shot all three women . Maia and Rina were killed on the scene , and Lucy passed away from her wounds two days later . In a private ceremony exactly one year later , Rabbi Leo Dee and his daughters Keren and Tali and son Yehuda ( now 19 , 18 and 15 years old ) dedicated a new social hall in their community of Efrat in Lucy ’ s memory . Later that evening , a standing - room - only crowd of 700 , plus 2 , 400 who watched the ceremony online , gathered in the newly dedicated Shirat Lucy ( Lucy ’ s Song ) Hall above the Mishkan Tziporah synagogue in Efrat to remember the three women and to draw inspiration from their lives . Rabbi Leo Dee speaksAfter thanking the attendees for “ the abundance of love , help , positive wishes , and kindness from everyone this year ,” Rabbi Dee called these collective acts of kindness “ our greatest nechama [ comfort ].” In his talk , Rabbi Dee highlighted what he identified as “ some of the thousands of projects that have been set off during this year in their memory by friends , family , and people we have never met before !” He spoke about the Torah scroll written in Lucy ’ s memory , “ with every one of the 300 , 000 letters written by different schoolchildren , soldiers , and others from around the world …. This sefer Torah is the essence of Lucy ’ s quest to get every Jew to feel part of our greater story and to shine their light in the world .” In a widely publicized follow - up story to the murders , seven people received one of Lucy ’ s organs . In the audience that night was Rina Lital , the recipient of Lucy Dee ’ s heart . While relating all the ways that Rina ’ s life has begun to mirror Lucy ’ s since the transplant , Rabbi Dee said , “ The head of organ donations at Beilinson [ Hospital , Rabin Medical Center , Petah Tikvah ] recently announced on national radio that the 30 % increase in organ donors in Israel is directly connected to Lucy ’ s story .” Continuing the theme of saving lives , Rabbi Dee said that “ groups of extremely generous Swiss and American donors , who had never met any of us , dedicated a number of ambulances in [ Lucy ’ s ] memory and in the memory of Rina and Maia . They have saved numerous lives since then .” Dressed in matching white T - shirts , the students and faculty of Efrat ’ s Orot Yehuda , where Lucy was a much - loved English teacher , recorded a haunting video of songs of encouragement and faith dedicated to Lucy ’ s memory . The five - minute video garnered more than 43 , 000 views in its first four days . In Maia ’ s memory , tens of thousands of Jews around the world are learning and discussing a teaching from Pirkei Avot ( Ethics of the Fathers ) at their Shabbat table each week . The project started 18 months ago , when the Dees hosted two of Maia ’ s friends from London . On that Shabbat , they learned one mishna from Pirkei Avot at each meal . In Maia ’ s memory , those friends expanded the project to the extent that Rabbi Dee commented , “ I cannot travel anywhere today without people coming up to me and saying , ‘ I am learning your Pirkei Avot .’” He also talked about a project that Maia initiated during her National Service in a high school in Yeroham . She provided snacks to encourage girls to study the weekly Torah portion during their morning break . Maia named the project “ Nish Nosh Parsh ” and , according to Rabbi Dee , the project “ has now been rolled out to hundreds of ulpanot across Israel in her memory .” Rabbi Dee shared that Rina ’ s friendly and adventurous nature has been memorialized in “ a trip to Masada for hundreds of teens from around the country before Pesach . They are planning to build a spring for [ Rina ] in Hamra over the summer .“ Rina , if there was a girl in your year feeling lonely , you were the one with your arm around her , and you were the one who would start a new ball game to include her ,” her father said . “ To remember your kindness , your friends have built a special space in the school at Kiryat Arba to bring everyone together during break times and for Mincha [ afternoon prayers ] ( which you inspired everyone to daven ), and they have dedicated a new chug of basketball , to which everyone is invited and will keep everyone fit .” Future plans include a new youth house for Ezra in the Tamar neighborhood of Efrat in memory of Rina , who was instrumental in helping to establish the Tamar branch . Speaking directly to his wife and daughters , Dee concluded his summary of memorial projects with the words , “ Lucy , Maia , and Rina – you will never be forgotten . Everything I am doing is dedicated to one of you , and so many projects continue in your merit .” The rabbi peppered his evening ’ s talk with the question , “ Mi kamocha , Yisrael ?” ( Who is like you , Israel ?), highlighting the many ways that he has been inspired by the Jewish people ’ s response to his family ’ s tragedy . He concluded with seven lessons he has drawn from the past year . These were his exact words : There ’ s no benefit to being sad . I believe that the purpose of mourning is to get to a point where you can remember your loved ones with a smile ; otherwise , we ’ ll never want to think about them at all . The challenge is figuring out how to do it . With the help of all these projects and more , Am Yisrael [ the Nation of Israel ] has been the greatest help . There ’ s nothing like the Jewish people . From the shiva [ week - long mourning period ] onwards , we have felt that we did not lose three members of our family of seven , but three from our family of 14 million . Tzaddikim [ righteous people ] live forever : They never die . Rashaim [ evil people ] never live , even when they are alive . This also applies to nations . The Jewish people from all past generations are still living through their contributions to our lives today . Our enemies have contributed nothing but destruction and are forgettable even while they live . I ’ m grateful for the 30 years I knew Lucy , the 20 years I knew Maia , and the 15 years I knew Rina . Your impact on this world is immeasurable . What you have achieved in half a lifetime , or quarter of a lifetime , is more than most of us could achieve in 10 lifetimes . It ’ s a challenge to always think of the good times , but that ’ s what ’ s needed . The best treatment for destruction is to build . The first mitzvah of the Shulchan Aruch [ Code of Jewish Law ] is to jump out of bed in the morning like a lion . This means : You must have something to jump out of bed for . Every Jew must have at least one passion he or she is working on at any time , and that ’ s what gets you up in the morning . If you are struggling to get out of bed , find your passion . Friday morning , planting fruit trees in Efrat was fulfilling the biblical mitzvah of Yishuv Ha ’ Aretz , settling the land . We will continue to build , we will continue to plant . There ’ s no youth like our Jewish youth . They have get up and go , they build , they invent , and they are the bravest generation in our history . I am proud of every one of them . They are the or le ’ goyim [ light unto the nations ]. At the shiva , some 17 - year - old boys from the community asked if they could build a viewpoint [ lookout ] in Efrat in memory of the girls , and I apparently agreed . Nine months later , they showed me what they had achieved  – and the Mitzpeh HaDegel [ Flag Outlook ] would be a victory for a professional landscape company , let alone a group of 17 - year - old boys who raised the funds themselves and taught themselves how to build pergolas and plant trees from YouTube videos . Finally , I learned that what matters is not my emunah in Hashem , my faith in God , but rather Hashem ’ s faith in me . Every morning I say “ Modeh Ani … Rabah Emunatecha ” Thank you , Hashem , for Your faith in me . We can appreciate the infinite miracles in our lives – the friends , the family , Am Yisrael , Eretz Yisrael [ the Land of Israel ] – but if Hashem agreed for us to wake up this morning , He has a purpose for us . Our job is not to question Him but to find that purpose . Today there are hundreds of thousands of Jews in Israel fighting for our people and for freedom in the world – fulfilling their purpose , and millions of others are supporting them . The daughters speakGathered together for strength and support , the three remaining Dee children ascended the platform , where both daughters spoke about their mother and sisters . At the evening event , Keren and Tali , who are fully bilingual , spoke in Hebrew ; at the memorial ceremony at the cemetery in Kfar Etzion the next morning , they delivered their comments in English . Keren revealed the truth about living post - trauma by contrasting her daily reality with what she described as “ the beautiful image I built for myself from the outside .”“ At night , every thought and feeling that comes to mind keeps switching to difficult things . I am flooded with memories ; tossing and turning over and over and unable to sleep . At about five , I get out of bed in despair and decide to spend the remaining time ‘ til morning on my phone .” She then recounted what her day would be like if her mother and sisters were still alive , including a poignant image of finding her mother in the kitchen baking “ some indulgent chocolate banana muffins that we could take with us ; and reminding us , of course , that it ’ s important to put on sunscreen so we don ’ t have wrinkles and to drink a lot because it ’ s hot today .” Keren mused about the “ Orphan ’ s Kaddish ” she finds in her prayerbook and how she realized , with a start , that this memorial prayer now refers to her . She concluded with a thought she learned from her father that she said “ helps me continue .”“ What if our life was supposed to look like this ? What if God predestined an allotted time for them to be with us ? For 18 years ? And then we were meant to go on alone ?” she asked .“ And then I ask myself , if I had the option and I knew that my life would look like this from the beginning , would I take it or give it up ?“ Everything in life that made me who I am today , I learned from them ,” Keren said .“ Mummy : If it ’ s doing hessed [ acts of kindness ], giving , caring , cooking like crazy , forgiving , being a listening ear but always remembering that there is something more to aspire to and to move forward , then that ’ s what she ’ ll do .“ Maia : Demanding what you deserved , dressing in style , giving good advice , putting effort into what is important to you , loving the Torah , and always listening to others .“ Rina : Loving this country , being righteous with complete faith that this is the way , being humble , loving and believing that everyone has something special of their own .“ In short , of course I would choose life !“ Mummy , Maia , and Rina , I believe that you are still by my side in every dilemma I have , every new beginning , in every frustration and in every achievement . Thank you for being with me during the most beautiful 18 years of my life , and now I must move on : not by replacing you , or forgetting you , but with you by my side and above .” TALI , the younger Dee sister , spoke about all the times , places , and circumstances when she misses her mother and sisters . In a heartrending admission , Tali shared that “ I don ’ t have a mother ’ s voice in my life . There is no one to wake me up in the morning and push me out of bed . Everyone wants to make it easy for me , they tell me to [ have ] compassion on myself – but I often just need your demanding voice . I miss your hug . There is nothing in the world that can replace it . And no human being can fill that place . Someone who will take me with my temper , to whom I can show all my hard sides – and no matter what , you will always love me .” Moving from the personal to the national , she said , “ And during this year , our nation has also turned upside down . After the attack [ on October 7 ], I thought a lot about the difference between soldiers who knowingly put themselves at risk , and my family , who just wanted to go on holiday .“ But I understood that we chose to live here in this country . And we were always aware of the dangers present in this choice . The home front and the battle front are close to each other in our country ,” Tali said .“ Many people are now experiencing what I experienced and I want to tell them it gets easier , but I ’ m not sure I can say that . There are days when I really manage to be happy . But there is no pill that can cure the pain ; there is no pill that fixes everything .“… I ’ m not the same person after everything that happened to me . This story is such a central part of my identity that you can ’ t really know me without it . I ’ ve grown up . I have a broader perspective . Things I cried about a year ago are not the things I cry about now ,” she said .“ In many ways , this is what is happening to our nation . We went through something huge : terrible . And we can ’ t go back to being what we were before . We sacrificed too much for this . We need to grow up . Our prayers should increase .” Tali concluded her remarks by speaking of how her mother and sisters still influence her . “ Thanks to Rina , I now pay much more attention to the people around me : say hello to everyone , even the girls I ’ m less friendly with . To be a better friend , to reduce my ego ; to have a simple joy .“ Thanks to Maia , when I ’ m in midrasha I try harder and invest more , and I ’ m not ashamed to ask questions .“ Thanks to Mummy , I try to be more flexible .“ Some days it ’ s harder to feel it , but sometimes I feel like I have three angels of my own ,” she revealed . “ I feel protected .” A close friend speaksIn a raw and deeply personal speech delivered at the cemetery , Lucy ’ s close friend Danja Keesing related an amusing story about how her friend convinced her to wake up in time to take an exercise class together early Sunday mornings . “ Sunday mornings , I liked you least of all , I have to admit . Actually , I didn ’ t like you at all . No one is perky on Sunday morning after Shabbos … besides Lucy .” Lucy ’ s enthusiasm eventually won Keesing over . “ That is your essence , Lucy : believing in others – maybe even many times more than you ever believed in yourself .” Later she declared , “ You loved so , so hard ; tried so , so hard . Had so many love and care goals as a wife and a mother that sometimes I thought to myself , ‘ What is the intensity ? What is the rush ? Breathe . Take less to heart . Don ’ t work so hard . Don ’ t try so hard .’“ Now I know that your soul knew that what others do in 70 , 80 , or 90 years , you had to do in less than 50 .” The evening memorial program also featured a siyum ( conclusion celebration ) on Mishna made by Maia ’ s friends , and words of Torah in Hebrew from Rabbanit Yemima Mizrachi . The evening ended with a group sing - along , filled with songs about Moshiach ( Messiah ) and redemption led by Shlomo Katz , who is a musician and rabbi of Shirat David in Efrat .  The writer is a freelance journalist and expert on the non - Jewish awakening to Torah happening in our day . She is the editor of Ten From The Nations and Lighting Up The Nations .