Residents of Bethlehem & rsquo ; s three refugee camps have been launching daily protests against the Palestinian Authority , coinciding with preparations for Christmas celebrations in Bethlehem and the nearby towns of Bet Jala and Bet Sahour .
Some Christian residents expressed fear that the protests in the refugee camps of Dheisheh , Aida and Jibrin & ndash ; also known as al - Azza Camp & ndash ; might spread to their communities , ruining Christmas festivities that have already been badly affected since the outbreak of the coronavirus in March 2020 .
During the nightly protests during the past week , residents burned tires and blocked streets , demanding the release of several young men arrested by the PA security forces .
The protests began at Dheisheh refugee camp after the security forces arrested a number of young men who raised banners belonging to Hamas and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine ( PFLP ) during the funeral of Amjad Abu Sultan .
Abu Sultan , 14 , was shot dead by IDF soldiers in October as he was preparing to throw a Molotov cocktail from Bet Jala at Israeli vehicles on Route 60 , also known as the & ldquo ; Tunnels Road .& rdquo ; His body was handed over to the Palestinians two weeks ago .

شاهد | شبان ي ُ غلقون الشارع الرئيس المحاذي لمخيم الدهيشة في بيت لحم ، احتجاجا ً على اعتـ . قال الأجهزة الأمنية لشاب وملاحقة آخرين .. pic . twitter . com / R1M4sHKDea
& mdash ; Jmedia (@ Jmediaps ) December 2 , 2021

During the funeral , PA security officers attacked several mourners who were carrying Hamas flags and PFLP banners , according to Palestinian sources .
Later , the security forces arrested several young men from Dheisheh , Aida and Jibrin camps who participated in the funeral , on charges of assaulting a number of officers .
On instructions from the PA leadership , the Palestinian security forces have in recent weeks banned Palestinians from carrying Hamas flags and banners of other Palestinian groups during public events .
The protests first began in Dheisheh camp after the PA security forces last week arrested Mohammed Shaheen , a teenager who participated in the funeral of Abu Sultan . Several camp residents who were summoned for interrogation by the security forces have refused to comply .

أجهزة السلطة ببيت لحم تعتقل الفتى محمد شاهين من مخيم الدهيشة وتطالب آخرين بتسليم أنفسهم على أثر رفضهم واحتجاجهم لما تعرضوا له من اعتداء من ق ِ بل عناصر أمنية بزي مدني أثناء تشييع جثمان الشـ ـهيد أمجد أبو سلطان وسحلهم وإنزال رايات فصائل # لا_للاعتقال_السياسي # الاعتقال_السياسي_جريمة pic . twitter . com / n9ulNMxfyE
& mdash ; موقع أمامة الإخباري (@ omamahwest ) November 30 , 2021

& ldquo ; What is happening in Dheisheh and the other two refugee camps is a small intifada [ uprising ] against the Palestinian Authority ,& rdquo ; said a Palestinian journalist from Bethlehem . & ldquo ; The residents of the camp are angry , because they feel intimidated by the Palestinian security forces . The clampdown is targeting supporters of the PFLP and Hamas .& rdquo ;
A PA security official in Bethlehem refused to comment on the allegations .
The official warned , however , that the Palestinian security forces will continue to enforce law and order and prevent scenes of anarchy and lawlessness in the Bethlehem area .
A SENIOR official with the ruling Fatah faction headed by PA President Mahmoud Abbas accused Hamas and the PFLP of standing behind the camp protests .
& ldquo ; Hamas and the PFLP are inciting the residents of the camps against the Palestinian Authority ,& rdquo ; the official claimed . & ldquo ; This is happening not only in the Bethlehem area , but also in other camps , especially in the areas of Nablus and Jenin .& rdquo ;
The PFLP said in a statement on Saturday that it holds the PA responsible for the latest tensions in Bethlehem . The group threatened to & ldquo ; strike with an iron fist all those who harm the symbols of the PFLP .& rdquo ;
The Bethlehem Municipality , meanwhile , has begun decorating Manger Square and other parts of the city for Christmas .
But some Christian residents warned that the tensions in the nearby refugee camps could spread to Bethlehem , Bet Jala and Bet Sahour .
& ldquo ; The situation in Bethlehem is very tense ,& rdquo ; said a Christian businessman who owns an olive wood factory in the city . & ldquo ; We hope that the Palestinian security forces are able to solve the problem with the camp residents before Christmas .& rdquo ;
The tensions in Bethlehem come amid growing scenes of violence on university campuses in the West Bank .
On Saturday , a student was stabbed to death during a brawl at the Arab American University ( AAU ) near Jenin . The student was identified as Mahran Khaliliyeh , 21 . His friends claimed that he was attacked by students affiliated with Fatah .

# فيديو | لحظة طعن الطالب مهران خليلية في الجامعة الأمريكية بـ # جنين ، حيث تم الاعلان عن وفاته فور وصوله للمستشفى pic . twitter . com / nEeZToHtxn
& mdash ; وكالة شهاب للأنباء (@ ShehabAgency ) December 4 , 2021

The university was immediately closed after the incident . A suspect later handed himself over to the PA police in Jenin .
On Friday , another fight erupted at Bir Zeit University between Fatah and PFLP students . The university administration announced that the campus will be closed on Saturday and appealed to all students to abide by the university regulations and laws .
The violence erupted after a number of student groups affiliated with Hamas and the PFLP issued a statement condemning the PA security forces for raiding and searching the university dormitories . Fatah - affiliated students who were unhappy with the statement reportedly beat some PFLP and Hamas supporters .