The IDF operated overnight and on Saturday morning to hunt down the killer of Elhanan Klein , which saw soldiers from the navy and the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Services ) confront a terror cell and kill five terrorists , the military reported . The cell , which had been under surveillance for half a year , was intercepted by Israeli forces just as they were allegedly planning another major terrorist act . The confrontation erupted late Thursday evening in a densely populated residential area where terrorists were using civilian cover to evade capture . The intense firefight , which lasted more than 12 hours , resulted in the critical injury of an elite IDF commando . Medical teams at Beilinson Hospital in Petah Tikva are currently battling to save his life . The operation was led by Menashe Brigade Commander Lt .- Col . Ayoub Kayouf , involving stealth tactics that aimed to surprise and quickly apprehend the terrorists with minimal civilian involvement and collateral damage . According to the report , the IDF raided the village of Deir al - Ghusun in the Tulkarm area , targeting the terrorists who carried out the attack last November near the town of Beit Lid on Highway 557 , where Klein , a father of three from Enav , was killed on his way back from reserve duty . The terrorists also carried out a terror attack on April 7 , 2024 , near the Nabi Elias junction in the West Bank , in which two Israelis were wounded , one of them a female soldier . The military said that the four terrorists who were killed were Adnan Taisir Kamal Samara , a Hamas member from Tulkarm who had previously been imprisoned for being involved with the terrorist group ; Alaa Adib Abed Aljaber Sharitakh , another Hamas member who had been imprisoned for 14 years due to his involvement in terrorist activity ; Tamer Abed Allatif Rajeh Rajeh , a Hamas member from the town of Shuweika ; and Asal Bashir Taufik Badran a Palestinian Islamic Jihad member from the town of Deir al - Ghusun who had also been imprisoned for being involved in terrorist activity . The military noted that in the past few months , additional collaborators had been arrested and had confessed to being involved in the attacks , funded by Hamas . Despite stall in Gaza , IDF continues West Bank operations & nbsp ; The terrorists barricaded themselves inside a house and opened fire on the IDF soldiers , who responded by opening fire and using shoulder - fired missiles , as well as a remotely piloted aircraft , to attack the building . In addition to the five terrorists who were eliminated , five wanted individuals were arrested in the nearby village of Sebastia near Nablus . The IDF dismantled defenses and breached houses in Tulkarm , looking for a number of terrorists in the area . The standoff concluded when engineering units used heavy machinery to breach the building after prolonged exchanges of gunfire . Despite initial assessments that the building & rsquo ; s destruction had neutralized the threat , two terrorists emerged from the debris , leading to further confrontations . One attacker attempted to continue the assault but was neutralized by an IDF bulldozer operated by the Engineering Corps . Avi Ashkenazi contributed to this report .& nbsp ;