The world & rsquo ; s climate is changing & ndash ; again . But instead of getting warmer the last time like it is now , in around 6 , 200 BCE , it was getting colder . A drought resulted and launched what was called the 8 . 2ka ( kiloyears & ndash ; thousands of years & ndash ; ago ), which began about 8 , 200 years ago and lasted for the next two to four centuries in the southern Levant that includes modern - day Israel , the Palestinian territories , Jordan , Lebanon , southern Syria and the Sinai desert . Until now , archaeologists thought that this sudden cooling in global climate led to the widespread abandonment of coastal settlements in the southern Levant . However , researchers at the University of Haifa , Bar - Ilan University ( BIU ) in Ramat Gan , and the University of California at San Diego have produced new evidence suggesting that at least one village formerly thought abandoned not only remained occupied but thrived throughout this period . They said the study helped fill a gap in our understanding of the early settlement of the Eastern Mediterranean coastline . They have just published their study in the journal Antiquity under the title & ldquo ; Continuity and climate change : the Neolithic coastal settlement of Habonim North , Israel .& rdquo ; The village of Habonim North was discovered off the Carmel Coast in the mid - 2010s and later surveyed by a team led by the University of Haifa & rsquo ; s Dr . Ehud Arkin Shalev . The study was led by Prof . Assaf Yasur - Landau , head of the Leon Recanati Institute for Maritime Studies at the University of Haifa , and Roey Nickelsberg , a doctoral candidate there . BIU Prof . Ehud Weiss and Dr . Suembikya Frumin also participated .& ldquo ; This study helped fill a gap in our understanding of the early settlement of the Eastern Mediterranean coastline ,& rdquo ; said Prof . Thomas Levy , a co - author on the paper , co - director of UC San Diego & rsquo ; s Center for Cyber - Archaeology and Sustainability ( CCAS ) and chairman of Archaeology of Ancient Israel and Neighboring Lands in the anthropology department of the university & rsquo ; s graduate division . Unearthing the Levantine coastline & ldquo ; It deals with human resilience ,& rdquo ; he said . An experienced scuba diver , Levy spent 40 years carrying out archaeological field work in the deserts of Israel and Jordan . Before its excavation and analysis , there was little evidence for human habitation along the southern Levantine coast during the 8 . 2ka event . The dig , which involved a weeks - long , 24 / 7 coordinated effort between the partners in the two countries , was the first formal excavation of the submerged site . Animal bonesLED BY Yasur - Landau and Nickelsberg , the international team excavated the site using a combination of sediment dredging and sampling , as well as photogrammetry and 3D modeling . Team members uncovered pottery shards or & ldquo ; sherds & rdquo ;; stone tools , including ceremonial weapons and fishing - net weights ; animal and plant remains ; and architecture . Using radiocarbon dating , the researchers tested the recovered bones of wild and domesticated animals , the charred seeds of wild plants , crops like wheat and lentils , and weeds that tend to accompany these crops . Their results traced these organic materials back to the Early Pottery Neolithic ( EPN ), which coincided with both the invention of pottery and the 8 . 2ka event . Pottery sherds , stone tools and architecture in the village were also evidence of activity at the site to the EPN and , surprisingly , to the Late Pottery Neolithic , when the village was thought to have been abandoned . As for how the village likely weathered the worst of the climate instability , the researchers point to signs of an economy that diversified from farming to include maritime culture and trade within a distinct cultural identity . Evidence includes fishing - net weights ; tools made of basalt , a stone that does not naturally occur along this part of the eastern Mediterranean coast ; and a ceremonial mace head .& ldquo ; Our study showed that the Early Pottery Neolithic society displayed multi - layered resilience that enabled it to withstand the 8 . 2ka crisis ,& rdquo ; noted Yasur - Landau , a senior author on the paper . & ldquo ; I was happily surprised by the richness of the finds , from pottery to organic remains .& rdquo ; Although scientists debate the cause of the 8 . 2ka event , some speculate that it began with the final collapse of the Laurentide ice sheet , which shaped much of the North American landscape in its retreat from modern - day Canada and the northern US . As it melted , the ice sheet would have changed the flow of ocean currents and affected heat transport , leading to the observed drop in global temperatures . Many of the activities uncovered at the village , including the creation of culturally distinct pottery and trade , formed the basis for later urban societies . & ldquo ; To me , what & rsquo ; s important is to change how we look at things ,& rdquo ; said Nickelsberg . & ldquo ; Many archaeologists like to look at the collapse of civilizations . Maybe it & rsquo ; s time to start looking at the development of human culture , rather than its destruction and abandonment .