The Knesset National Security Committee held a meeting on Wednesday to examine actions to & ldquo ; prevent harm to an elected official at a demonstration or protest near his house ,& rdquo ; following stormy protests since last week against the government and in favor of a hostage deal . The session , which was convened at the request of Likud MK Amit Halevy , came two days after Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu headed a meeting on the same subject with National Security Minister Itamar Ben - Gvir , Justice Minister Yariv Levin , Israel & rsquo ; s police commissioner , and other ministers . The Prime Minister & rsquo ; s Office did not put out a statement on the content of Monday & rsquo ; s meeting . A number of ministers and Knesset members from the coalition publicly criticized protest groups last week after a torch was thrown at a police cavalry officer and after protesters succeeded in evading the police and approaching Netanyahu & rsquo ; s private residence on Aza Street in Jerusalem . Some argued that the prime minister & rsquo ; s life had been in danger , but the Israel Police denied this . On Saturday night , a man rammed into protesters in Tel Aviv , injuring five people . Netanyahu addressed the events in remarks at the beginning of Sunday & rsquo ; s government meeting , saying that & ldquo ; most of the people , including me , condemn violence among us & ndash ; rioting and lawlessness , ramming into protesters or attacking police officers , reckless and violent incitement for murder on social media .& rdquo ; Police data shows 141 elected officials are currently designated as threatened & nbsp ; According to data presented by Dep .- Ch . Shlomi Sagi , head of the police & rsquo ; s operations division , during Wednesday & rsquo ; s Knesset National Security session , 141 elected officials are currently designated as being & ldquo ; threatened .& rdquo ; Sagi added that according to the law , citizens do not need approval from the police to demonstrate , but do need approval for marches . He also rejected claims by Knesset members from the coalition that the police were conducting selective enforcement and not doing enough to prevent law - breaking during the anti - government protests , stating that & ldquo ; the police is not interested in which side the protesters are , but that all who participate return home safely , while maintaining the balance between the freedom of assembly and the freedom of movement of the general public .& rdquo ; Knesset members from the opposition criticized the topic of the session . Labor MK Gilad Kariv argued that the session should focus not on the protesters but on police use of force against the protesters . Yesh Atid MK Karin Elharrar added that violence on all sides must be condemned , and that she did not hear condemnations from members of the coalition of the ramming incident .& ldquo ; I understand that you are having a hard time , it is not pleasant when people demonstrate against you . On the other hand , freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate is a fundamental value in democracy .& rdquo ; Other Knesset members from the opposition pointed out that at the same time as the National Security Committee session , a Knesset caucus to support the hostages being held by Hamas in Gaza was also meeting , but that while over five Knesset coalition members attended the committee session , only one Knesset member from the coalition attended the caucus session & ndash ; the caucus & rsquo ; s co - chair , Likud MK Boaz Bismuth . At least 13 Knesset members from the opposition attended the caucus session .& nbsp ;