Settlers vandalized stores , homes and vehicles along Route 60 in the West Bank Palestinian town of Huwara on Monday in a violent attack that left three Palestinians injured .
The army said that " there was an altercation between settlers and Palestinians , in which several Palestinian vehicles and businesses in Huwara were damaged ."
" The altercation began when a number of vehicles traveling in a convoy on Route 60 through the Huwara threw stones " causing extensive damage , the army said .
Police said it was investigating the incident .

Settlers from Yitzhar threw stones at Palestinians and vehicles in the West Bank town of Huwarra injuring at least 3 people including a 3yr old boy . The IDF said they are looking into the incident https :// t . co / 3bW1t32Vx5
& mdash ; Anna Ahronheim (@ AAhronheim ) January 24 , 2022

The left - wing NGO Yesh Din charged that the attack occurred in full view of the army , which often heavily patrols that section of Route 60 , a road heavily used by both Israeli and Palestinian vehicles .
Anyone traveling in the area must use that road , which goes straight through the town and is flanked with stores and shops in that section of the route .

Yesh Din provided the media with photos and video from the attack .
It said that the group of settlers arrived in a convoy of cars accompanied by the IDF , from the direction of the Tapuah junction , and that the convoy played loud music .
The convoy stopped in Huwara , which is near Nablus . Those in the vehicles threw stones at Palestinian cars , stores and homes , shattering windows and injuring three Palestinians , Yesh Din said .
& ldquo ; In broad daylight , under the guise of protection from the soldiers , a convoy of settlers is conducting a pogrom against the Palestinians ,& rdquo ; Yesh Din executive director Lior Amihai charged .
The event comes just days after settlers attacked left - wing activists in the same region of the West Bank , beating them with clubs and shovels and torching one of their vehicles .
Defense Minister Benny Gantz ( Blue and White ) condemned nationalistic violence .
& ldquo ; The recent incidents involving nationalistically motivated violence in Judea and Samaria are grave and I intend to act firmly against them . Whoever hurls rocks , ignites vehicles and uses weapons [ for the purpose of violence ] is a terrorist and will be treated as such ,& rdquo ; Gantz said .
& ldquo ; I have recently initiated several meetings to discuss this issue , and we currently find ourselves at the height of the process to strengthen our troops on the ground , to build forces with the Police and the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ), and to determine operational and legal proceedings vis - a - vis such incidents .& rdquo ;