Not long ago , Walter Bingham celebrated his 100th birthday , but as he phrases it , he has entered his 101st year of life . I first met Walter in Jerusalem when I was working at a radio station , where he was featured on its Aliyah Show . A long - time experienced broadcaster , he was subsequently offered his own show , Walter & rsquo ; s World . I was the sound engineer and frequently joined Walter for live broadcasts and to cover news events . Walter quickly adapted to the new , ever - changing technology , and his hand - held digital recorder and microphone became his constant companions . We went backstage to interview performers at music festivals , and politicians at rallies . With his outgoing personality and relaxed style , Walter was always able to get guests to open up . Today , he records and edits two programs covering current events , as well as human interest stories : Walter & rsquo ; s World on Israel National Radio ; and The Walter Bingham File on Israel News Talk Radio . Despite his age , he often joins the international media to cover events at dangerous locations . Walter also spends time commemorating the memory of the Holocaust through frequent speaking engagements . Last May , he spent a week in the Berlin area talking to schoolchildren about his youth in Germany and the rise of Nazism . In October , he was hosted by the March of the Living organization , which promotes Holocaust education , for a special reenactment of the Kindertransport , which saved up to 10 , 000 children from the Nazis . He traveled with one of three other kinder from Israel to several locations in Germany , and then to Holland and England , reenacting their journey in 1939 . That was how Walter survived the war ; he was sent to England on the Kindertransport , where he grew up without his parents . Throughout the journey , they were interviewed and filmed for a documentary , which captured touching moments . When the ferry left the port of Hoek Van Holland , emotion welled up as Walter remembered waving goodbye to Europe and awaiting freedom in England , as he did 84 years ago . I had the opportunity to interview Walter about the experience for my podcast , Jewish History Moment . Kindertransport Refugee Walter Bingham Returns to Germany by Ben BreskyWalter Bingham describes the Kindertransport reenactment , modern German attitudes to Jews post - Holocaust and his travel to Europe during the Israel - Gaza war . Kindertransport Refugee Walter Bingham Returns to Germany by Ben BreskyWalter Bingham describes the Kindertransport reenactment , modern German attitudes to Jews post - Holocaust and his travel to Europe during the Israel - Gaza war . Read on SubstackGermans then vs todayWalter explained that he had previously returned to Germany in 1988 , but the attitudes were different . & ldquo ; I was invited by the municipality , who were very nice , but the population didn & rsquo ; t seem to care about us . Nobody smiled , nobody waved ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; This time it was different . We were approached by locals in Germany . You couldn & rsquo ; t miss us because we had two cameramen , a sound man , and lighting . The Germans were friendly , interested , and very happy to see us . The atmosphere was so much different .& rdquo ; Walter & rsquo ; s trip to Germany coincided with the Oct . 7 attacks in Israel , and he commented on how the president of Germany traveled to Israel in a display of support . Walter explained that 1988 was too soon after World War II . & ldquo ; That generation were the children and grandchildren of those who voted for Hitler . They were still indoctrinated ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; It takes several generations to take the poison out of their system , although there is still an element of neo - Nazis in Germany .& rdquo ; In February 2024 , March of the Living hosted Walter to again speak in London for three major events . This month , he went to the Auschwitz - Birkenau Memorial in Poland with March of the Living for Holocaust Remembrance Day , where he recited Kaddish at the end of the commemoration . The Nazi daggerWhen Walter speaks about his wartime experiences to groups , he has a visual presentation with pictures , photos , and charts that explain antisemitism and the Nazi era . Among the items he passes around to the audience is an authentic Hitler Youth dagger with a swastika . The blade is inscribed with the words & ldquo ; Blood and honor & rdquo ; in German .& ldquo ; For me it meant Jewish blood ,& rdquo ; Walter explained , & ldquo ; because after school , I saw my fellow pupils marching in Hitler Youth uniforms singing & lsquo ; When Jewish blood spurts from the knife , everything goes much better .& rsquo ;& rdquo ; British ArmyAfter arriving in England with the Kindertransport , he spent several years on a religious kibbutz training camp in Wales . Walter then went to London and joined the British Army . In June 1944 , he landed on the beaches of Normandy . For his extraordinary action , he was awarded the Military Medal for bravery in the field by King George VI . He also received France & rsquo ; s highest honor , the L & eacute ; gion d & rsquo ; honneur . As a fluent German speaker , he was eventually transferred to London to train as a documents specialist and counter - intelligence operative . On VE Day ( May 8 , 1945 ), he was sent to Hamburg , where he was given an office in the former Nazi party headquarters of the greater Hamburg area . Among the numerous interviews he conducted was one with Nazi foreign minister Joachim von Ribbentrop , who denied all knowledge of the Holocaust , although he oversaw all anti - Jewish activities in Nazi - occupied Europe . He was the first of the senior Nazi leaders to be executed after the Nuremberg war crimes trials . After the war , Walter made a life for himself in England . Following his BA , he obtained a post - graduate degree in political philosophy from the University of London . That helped him to take up a career in radio journalism . Modeling careerTo supplement his income , Walter grew a beard and was in demand as an actor and advertising model . He was Santa Claus at Herrods , England & rsquo ; s premier department store , and for several years in London & rsquo ; s Selfridges department store . In documentaries , he played Charles Darwin , as well as other interesting parts . Advertisements with his photo could be seen in posters on London buses and underground stations . I was even filmed with Walter . A Jerusalem - based musician was shooting a music video for Purim and asked for volunteers . When Walter and I showed up , they were especially glad to see him and promptly gave him the role of Mordechai . Today Walter , who made aliyah in 2004 at age 80 , has become a known name in Israel among the English - speaking community , journalists , and the many diplomats he has interviewed . President Isaac Herzog visited him on his birthday . Among his many honors , he holds two Guinness World Records : as the oldest working journalist in the world , and the oldest active radio show host . Plans for the futureAs a pilot , Walter once flew his airplane solo from England to Israel . One of his most emotional moments was circling low over Jerusalem , with tears running down his cheeks . For his 95th birthday , he went skydiving and is planning another jump within the next several months . His birthday cake this year bore the words & ldquo ; Until 180 & rdquo ; instead of the usual wish & ldquo ; Until 120 & rdquo ; because as Walter says , there is still much more work to be done .■& lsquo ; Kaddish & rsquo ; in BirkenauWalter Bingham participated in the 2024 commemoration of Holocaust Remembrance Day in Poland and recited mourners & rsquo ; Kaddish in front of 7 , 000 participants . The commemoration included 55 Holocaust survivors , several of whom were also survivors of the Oct . 7 Hamas attack in Israel . & ldquo ; It was very emotional ,& rdquo ; Bingham told In Jerusalem . The event , organized by March of the Living , begins at the Auschwitz concentration camp , with students and others marching to the ruins of the Birkenau camp . A series of speeches and prayers took place near where the Birkenau gas chambers were located . Among the participants were Rabbi Yisrael Meir Lau , a survivor and former chief rabbi of Israel ; popular Israeli singer Noa Kirel , who sang & ldquo ; Eli Eli & rdquo ;; and IDF Chief Cantor Shai Abramson , who recited the El Maleh Rachamim ( Prayer of Mercy ). Bingham noted that March of the Living had distributed blue jackets and Israeli flags to participants , giving the impression of a sea of blue as they marched . Many of the participants pledged to pay homage to the survivors and made a commitment to transmit the history and lessons of the Holocaust to the next generation .