The Ministry of Housing has begun a rapid plan to bring about 40 , 000 more foreign workers to Israel for jobs in the construction industry . At an event to mark the arrival of Indian citizens to work in the construction industry , held at the National Labor Federation complex in Modi & rsquo ; in , officials stated that by the end of June , 10 , 000 foreign workers will arrive from India who will replace the foreign workers from China and Moldova , who left after the war . The event was attended by Moshe Arbel , Minister of the Interior ; Yitzhak Goldknopf , Minister of Housing ; Yoav Ben Zur , Minister of Labor ; & nbsp ; MK Yaakov Asher , Chairman of the Interior Committee ; Yoav Simchi , Chairman of the National Histadrut ; Eldad Nitzan , Chairman of the Foreign Workers & rsquo ; Manpower Corporations in the Construction Industry at the Chamber of Commerce ; Yehuda Morgenstein , Director - General of the Ministry of Housing ; and the CEOs of KA Foreign Corporations . So far , about 1 , 200 workers from India have arrived in Israel . About another 1 , 200 more workers from India are now going through an absorption and training process . In total , by May , about 5 , 000 workers from India will arrive and another 5 , 000 workers will have gone through a screening and training process in preparation for their arrival in Israel . Nitzan said : " By the end of June , more than 10 , 000 foreign workers from India will be employed in Israel , and at the same time , the process of absorbing about 10 , 000 foreign workers from other countries such as Georgia , Sri Lanka , Azerbaijan , and more will begin ." The arrival of foreign workers will save the construction industry , which is currently in collapse , and most of the construction sites are closed ." The goal is to ultimately bring 65 , 000 foreign workers to Israel to replace Palestinian workers , who have not been allowed into Israel from the West Bank since war with Hamas broke out on October 7 . Nitzan thanked the authorities & ldquo ; who rallied to save the construction industry in Israel ," adding , " I am sure that we will be up to the task ."