Outside the window of the rectangular corrugated tin shig ( traditionally a tent used for hospitality , which in many places has been replaced by a structure ), a wind heavy with desert heat blows slightly and in the not - too - far distance , a young camel of the same color stands motionless and almost imperceptible in the tiny unrecognized Bedouin village of al - Bat . Here the al - Qaran family & ndash ; now totaling some 20 families & ndash ; has lived their traditional life since 1952 . Sofas and armchairs line one side of the shig & ndash ; used to receive guests & ndash ; and on the other side red , orange , black , and blue striped rugs and pillows bring color to the space . Saed , one of the al - Qaran brothers , offers coffee from a long - handled copper finjan , his movements slow and measured , his dark eyes unable to disguise the pain he feels . Even in his state of mourning , the Bedouin ritual of hospitality is paramount .& nbsp ; Just two weeks ago , on the first day of the war , he and his brothers were sitting in a similar shig with their children , on this little hilltop 4 . 5 km . north of the Bedouin town of Kuseife , some 65 km . from Gaza , when suddenly they heard a missile fly overhead and land in their animal pens . One of the brothers went out to check on the penned animals , while another went to check on the camel . Saed was just coming into the shig with the coffee finjan in his hand when a second missile landed in front of him , on the tin shig where the children were sitting . The flimsy shig was flattened as if it were literally a tin - can , burying the five boys underneath the rubble .& nbsp ; It took the brothers 15 minutes to dig them out with their bare hands & ndash ; they didn & rsquo ; t have any tools to use & ndash ; and another 20 minutes to get them to Soroka Medical Center in Beersheba . Four of the boys & ndash ; brothers Malek al - Qaran , 14 , and Jawad al - Qaran , 15 , and cousins Amin Akal al - Qaran , 16 , and Mohammad D & rsquo ; ib al - Qaran , 12 & ndash ; were already dead by the time they got there . Another cousin , Taleb Mahmoud al - Qaran , 35 , was seriously wounded but survived and is being treated in a hospital in the center of the country . Ibrahim , the father of two of the boys killed in the missile attack , walks in silently , his head wrapped loosely with a scarf . There is nothing to say , and the two men sit silently as one , and then another cousin comes to sit on the rugs , and Saed serves them coffee . The corrugated tin panels that used to make up the shig where the boys died lie flat in a pile next to a new shig which has been quickly built to replace it .& nbsp ; Here , in this isolated place in the desert , their little village is one of some 35 unrecognized Bedouin villages dotting the Negev desert . Despite numerous requests to the government from the residents , they have no air raid sirens , nor are they allowed to build a safe room or communal bomb shelter , so the boys had no chance . & nbsp ;& ldquo ; We have everything we need here ,& rdquo ; Saed , who served in the IDF , said . & ldquo ; We just need bomb shelters .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; So far , no temporary bomb shelters have been set up for the unrecognized villages , although at the entrance of the village the Islamic Movement brought two large cement pipes and placed cement slabs on either side & ndash ; as if that would protect anyone . According to Saed , the Dead Sea Works potash plant put together a & ldquo ; shelter & rdquo ; with huge industrialized - size bags of dirt but no roof covering . Neither shelter affords protection worth the effort of trying to reach it during a rocket attack . Some 400 , 000 Bedouin live in Israel in an area ranging from Beersheba to Arad . This includes 100 , 000 in the 35 unrecognized villages , such as al - Bat , which have no electricity , running water , paved roads , or school infrastructure ; and 300 , 000 in seven established towns . Thus the Negev Bedouin represent the most vulnerable socioeconomic group in Israel . & nbsp ; According to the Association for Civil Rights in Israel , at one point there were 46 unrecognized Bedouin villages . Following the state & rsquo ; s recognition of 11 of them , 35 villages in the Negev still remain unrecognized , with some still in the same locations since before the creation of the State of Israel , and others in their current locations following Israel & rsquo ; s transfer of the residents there during the period of military rule . & nbsp ; Since the Hamas terrorist attack on October 7 , at least 26 Bedouin citizens of Israel have been killed & ndash ; 19 by Hamas terrorists in the kibbutzim where they were working early on that Saturday morning , and seven by Hamas missiles . Osama Abu Asa , a Bedouin guard at the Supernova concert , was killed as he attempted to protect some of the young people hiding in a bomb shelter , believing that Hamas would not kill him because he was a Muslim . Abed Alrahman Ataf Alzeadna , 26 , from Rahat , was among those killed by Hamas terrorists on Zikim Beach ; and four of his relatives , who were with him , are still missingTaken hostageSix Bedouin who were working in the Holit dairy were kidnapped , including four members of the Ziadna family : father Yosef , 53 ; sons Hamza , 22 , and Belal , 19 ; and daughter Aisha , 17 .& nbsp ; In addition , said Jamal Al - Kirnawi , a Bedouin social worker and director of New Dawn & ndash ; a Rahat - based Bedouin - Jewish coexistence NGO that provides programming for at - risk Bedouin youth & ndash ; several Bedouin soldiers have been taken hostage , although how many has not been made official .& nbsp ; If the attack had taken place on Sunday , there would have been many more Bedouin victims , as many are agriculture workers at the kibbutzim , he added .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; Bedouins are really suffering ,& rdquo ; Al - Kirnawi , 44 , said .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; We were all shocked by what happened on October 7 . No one knew what was going on . We thought it was rocket attacks like we are used to , and that soon there would be an army response . We were not expecting anything like this . The society has been in shock & ndash ; especially the Bedouin who worked in the kibbutzim .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; We feel very sorry for this loss and pain . The rockets and Hamas did not differentiate between Jews and Bedouin .& rdquo ; He lost 20 close Jewish friends from the kibbutzim in the terrorist attack and said he is still living in mourning , as he has spent the weeks since the attack going from funeral to funeral and shiva to shiva .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; If on a daily basis we as Bedouins live in a complex reality , imagine the reality of uncertain chaos that we are living in now ,& rdquo ; he said .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; The war makes it much worse in the complexity of the society & ndash ; how to handle this tragic crisis . No one is able to understand this biggest tragedy that has happened . We feel the suffering of the families , and we can & rsquo ; t contain all the stories of loss . We are not in a normal situation and are processing this loss .& rdquo ; The economy of Bedouin towns has shut down since October 7 , and the many Bedouins who worked in the kibbutzim have lost their employment . But for Al - Kirnawi , the most difficult thing is that as a traditional society , many people in his community are suffering from anxiety and trauma ; but , in addition to municipal social welfare services being shut down and the government in general not functioning , the whole concept of counseling is still not widely accepted in Bedouin society , especially in the more traditional sectors .& ldquo ; People are suffering , whether they speak about it or not ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; But in general , Bedouin society takes what is happening on the outside and keeps it inside , without interpreting how that affects them [ on the inside ].& rdquo ; He added : & ldquo ; The concept of therapy is very hard , and usually people come to therapy when they are overwhelmed . So we need to be proactive before people get so overwhelmed that they need major intervention .& rdquo ; Trauma training for Bedouin mental health workersNew Dawn has begun special trauma training for educators and mental health workers within the Bedouin community , who pay several visits to the families directly affected by the war reaching out with mental health tools to help them cope with the loss , trauma , and anxiety they are feeling , he said .& nbsp ; Initially , they have trained seven men and women who have gone to attend to the most vulnerable in five villages , and there are plans for further training sessions .& ldquo ; We can & rsquo ; t wait for [ government offices ]. We , as a civil society , are much more powerful [ than the government ],& rdquo ; he said . Manar Abu Gosh , 25 , a resident of Rahat and social worker and volunteer at New Dawn who has gone through the training , has begun visiting residents of the unrecognized villages . The children are scared , and many of the parents are in shock and not able to function normally , she said . A missile fell near one of the villages while she was there , she noted .& ldquo ; We heard the sound of the missile , but we didn & rsquo ; t know where to run . The children were terrified ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; They are in a panic .& rdquo ; The men , who worked largely in agriculture , are now unemployed , and the children can & rsquo ; t participate in the remote video classes because they have no Internet services nor tablets , Abu Gosh said .& ldquo ; They are , after all , citizens who want to live in peace and quiet ,& rdquo ; she said .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; The men do not want to talk about how they are feeling , but the women and children come and speak about their worries and fears . Honestly , I came home and cried . It was the first time I was ever in an unrecognized village . I was shocked by what is happening to them . They are in a terrible situation . But I will continue to go to speak with them . It is not easy for any of us .& rdquo ; President Isaac Herzog visited the Bedouin Situation Room in Rahat on October 26 , where Jewish and Arab Israelis are working together to provide care packages for the most needy of the area & rsquo ; s residents , and met with community leaders and families of the missing and murdered of the community , including representatives of the Ziadna family .& ldquo ; We will continue to live together , and it is important for me to tell the entire Arab society in Israel how much I appreciate the responsibility shown across the community in these difficult days ,& rdquo ; he told them on October 26 .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; We deeply share in their grief . I came to offer my sympathies to the families , and we will meet with them again . We came to offer strength to the local authorities and to hear what is important to them . We came to tell everyone : We will continue to live together and continue to live in peace .& ldquo ; What we saw on October 7 does not represent Islam . Islam is a religion of respect , sensitivity , brotherhood , and love .& rdquo ; Quiet vigil for four family membersA few days before the president & rsquo ; s visit , in the Ziadna neighborhood of Rahat & ndash ; a conglomeration of tin huts and small gardens outside of Rahat & ndash ; the uncles , brothers , and nephews of Yosef Ziadna , kidnapped along with his three children , sit on white plastic chairs in a large circle in a vigil outside a home . The young men all sport beards and are powerfully built , but in their eyes are broken spirits , waiting to hear about their loved ones . At the time of the visit , all four & ndash ; including daughter Aisha , who wears the traditional Muslim hijab & ndash ; were presumed to be held hostage in Gaza . Yosef & rsquo ; s brother Salem had also been at the Holit dairy on October 7 with his four young children as every Saturday , taking the youngsters on a & ldquo ; fun day & rdquo ; to see the cows . He describes how for 12 harrowing hours he evaded the terrorists by hiding and darting through the dairy with his four terrified children , carrying the two the littlest ones in his arms .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; I heard shooting all the time . My children were so scared , they kept very quiet . Twice they captured us but I was able to escape , but sadly Yosef and his children were captured ,& rdquo ; he said . Though an uncle is hesitant about speaking to the press , Salem said he wants the story of his escape to be published in as many media outlets as possible , in the rare possibility that perhaps Yosef or his children will see it and then know that he and his children are safe .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; He is probably worried about us , too . I want to let him know that we are safe and got out .& rdquo ; Bedouin rescuers save 70 at SupernovaOn that Black Saturday morning , as revelers from the Supernova dance festival were frantically trying to escape from the onslaught of the Hamas attack , Hamed Alkarnawi and his family members Rafi , Ismail , and Dahish & ndash ; all of Rahat & ndash ; rushed to the scene with their truck when their cousin Hisham , who worked in the dining room of Kibbutz Be & rsquo ; eri , called them to tell them he and kibbutz member Aya Meidan & ndash ; who had gone out for a bike ride in the early morning & ndash ; were surrounded by Hamas terrorists .& nbsp ; The rescuers have declined media interviews , but in a powerful video produced by Have You Seen the Horizon Lately ? & ndash ; an initiative promoting Jewish - Arab partnership & ndash ; Meidan and the Alkarnawis recounted the daring rescue they undertook . Under fire , they first rescued some 40 young people from the Supernova party whom they encountered on their way to Be & rsquo ; eri hiding from the Hamas terrorists , and then made their way to rescue Hisham and Aya . Minivan driver Yosef El Zaidneh , 47 , also of the unrecognized neighborhood of Ziadna , who risked his life to save people from the party , has become an unlikely media hero after one of the people he rescued praised him and posted his phone number on social media to bring him more costumers .& nbsp ; El Zaidneh described himself as a & ldquo ; regular person ,& rdquo ; who never served in the army , just someone who goes out every morning to work and comes home in the evening to his wife and children . That Saturday at 1 a . m ., he took a regular customer and eight friends from Omer to the Supernova dance party near Kibbutz Re & rsquo ; im with instructions to return to pick them up later , at 1 p . m . But shortly after 6 a . m ., his phone began to ring incessantly and when his customer , Amit , told him there was a red alert of missiles , he told him he would be there in 20 minutes . But as he approached the junction to Kibbutz Sa & rsquo ; ad , he saw cars coming toward him and people motioning him to go back .& ldquo ; It is the first time in my life I have been afraid ,& rdquo ; he said , but he continued through the gunfire and was able to rescue 30 young Israelis as he packed twice the number of passengers allowed into his minivan . He knew the terrain near the kibbutz well and made his way through the fields to safety , forging a way for other cars to follow him .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; There was not one soldier there ; I saw wounded police . I knew if we went on the road to Re & rsquo ; im , they would kill us .& rdquo ; When they eventually reached a roadblock manned by Israeli police , they were directed to Kibbutz Tze & rsquo ; elim . Sadly , his cousin , Abed al - Rahman Alnasarah , 50 , also a minivan driver , was killed by the terrorists as he attempted to reach the party to rescue Israelis there . Since that morning El Zaidneh , the father of seven children , has not been able to sleep , and the horrific scenes of death and destruction keep replaying in his head .& nbsp ; He spends the nights chain smoking and drinking coffee , sitting outside on the swing in his fenced - in yard in front of his corrugated tin hut , praying for the morning to come . He saw things people should never have to see , he said . He has received threatening phone calls originating in Gaza from people claiming to be from Hamas who say they will find him because he rescued Israelis . He has reported the calls to the police , and his phone is under surveillance for any more threatening calls that come in , he said . He has been going to daily therapy sessions to help deal with the trauma .& nbsp ; El Zaidneh has also received many phone calls from people who want to donate money to him or give him presents , he said , but he is not interested in any of that and often does not even answer his phone anymore unless he recognizes the number . He did not do what he did for any sort of recognition , he said .& ldquo ; I had the chance to turn around . But above all , I am a human being , and I am an Israeli and I knew there were Israeli citizens [ in danger ]. If I can help , why not ? That is how our parents raised us . To do good if we can ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; I hope after this , the mayor of Omer & ndash ; who does not like us & ndash ; and the State of Israel will appreciate the Bedouin and stop destroying our houses and see that we are a part of this country .& ldquo ; We are not Hamas .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; I hope that the country will now think about us ; help the Bedouin develop in education , in culture . Maybe we won & rsquo ; t be 100 % equal , but at least 70 % equal .& rdquo ;  Video of the Supernova rescue : x . com / Horizon_lately / status / 1720905755371405633 ? t = KCzVUClfm7Y2_bsM2V13rA & amp ; s = 08