The tragic death of veteran Al Jazeera reporter Shireen Abu Akleh in Jenin on Wednesday morning came as Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Mohammad Shtayyeh was visiting Brussels , where he attended a meeting of the Ad Hoc Liaison Committee , a body whose primary function is to coordinate the delivery of international aid to the Palestinians . Established in 1993 , the AHLC has been meeting at least twice a year under the chairmanship of Norway . This year & rsquo ; s meeting came amid reports that some of the Western donor countries were refusing to provide additional financial aid to the PA unless it implements major reforms , especially in the field of education . The proposed reforms basically call for changes in the Palestinian school textbooks , which are written by PA professionals whose salaries are directly funded by the European Union . Shtayyeh went to the meeting with the hope of convincing the donors that the PA was serious about implementing large - scale reforms not only in the education sector , but in other fields , too . And as in previous meetings , Shtayyeh used the platform to launch a scathing attack on Israel , accusing it of engaging in a & ldquo ; systematic destruction of the two - state solution by allowing settlers to invade the Aqsa Mosque , preventing Palestinians from entering Jerusalem , in addition to field executions and arrests .& rdquo ; Referring to the severe financial crisis in the PA , the PA premier said that the Palestinians have started recovering from the coronavirus pandemic crisis , and that the Gross Domestic Product rose about 7 % in 2021 .& ldquo ; The Palestinian economy suffers from a defect in its structure ,& rdquo ; Shtayyeh told the donors . & ldquo ; It is a besieged economy that does not control its resources or capabilities , and it exists in an exceptional situation imposed by the reality of the occupation and its procedures .& rdquo ; He revealed that the rate of unemployment decreased in the last quarter of 2021 to 13 %, after having reached 18 % in 2019 . This , Shtayyeh said , was due to new job opportunities in the West Bank and work in Israel . A report submitted to the AHLC by the Quartet , which consists of the US , EU , United Nations and Russia , noted that the PA continues to face a dire financial situation resulting from diminished economic growth , a marked decline in donor funding and Israeli deductions from clearance revenue ( in response to payments made by the PA to families of Palestinians involved in terrorist attacks against Israelis ). In 2021 , the PA & rsquo ; s deficit reached $ 757 million & ndash ; approximately 4 . 4 % of GDP & ndash ; despite GDP growth of 6 %, an increase in gross local revenues of $ 1 . 5 billion and a decrease in government expenditure . During the same year , deductions by Israel from clearance revenues reached $ 282m ., representing 37 % of the budgetary deficit .& ldquo ; Projections for 2022 by the PA portray a similarly grim fiscal situation ,& rdquo ; according to the Quartet report . & ldquo ; Despite projecting 3 % growth in GDP and 8 % in gross revenues , the PA & rsquo ; s fiscal deficit is expected to reach $ 558m . Addressing that gap will require structural change , internal fiscal reform , improved economic growth , and the resolution of a number of long - discussed but still outstanding Israeli - Palestinian fiscal files .& rdquo ; Shtayyeh presented to the donors a plan that includes 21 steps for reforms related to administrative , financial , security , social and economic issues .& ldquo ; Whatever reforms we make , they alone are not sufficient to address the imbalance in the Palestinian economic structure , because it is under occupation ,& rdquo ; he argued . & ldquo ; Therefore , Israel must take measures on its part , and the support of donor countries must continue to enable us to continue fulfilling our obligations .& rdquo ; Shtayyeh did not refer to the issue of anti - Israel incitement . But the plan he presented to the donor countries argued that , as part of the reform process , the PA will work toward promoting and protecting the Palestinian national narrative and culture .& ldquo ; Information about Palestine is being deliberately distorted by the Israeli occupying authorities , and , as part of this process , Palestinian folklore , heritage and archaeological artifacts are being stolen ,& rdquo ; the plan stated . & ldquo ; A battle is being waged over the narrative dominating the conflict . It is important that our national culture , grounded on the Palestinian identity , should be consolidated and protected .& rdquo ; THE NEWS OF Abu Akleh & rsquo ; s death came as Shtayyeh was meeting with Roberta Metsola , president of the European Parliament , and other EU officials on the sidelines of the AHLC meeting . The widespread condemnations of the incident have since been used by Shtayyeh and other Palestinian officials to garner additional support for the Palestinians & rsquo ; case , promote the Palestinian narrative , and shift the blame onto Israel . The ultimate goal : to ramp up the narrative according to which the Palestinians are the & ldquo ; victims of the Israeli occupation .& rdquo ; In a statement from Brussels , Shtayyeh wrote that & ldquo ; Shireen was killed by the Israeli occupation while documenting their horrific crimes against our people .& rdquo ; He later urged the senior EU officials to pressure Israel & ldquo ; to stop all its unilateral measures and violations against our people and to allow the holding of elections in occupied Jerusalem .& rdquo ; It & rsquo ; s not clear at this stage whether Shtayyeh was successful in persuading the donor countries to resume or increase their financial aid to the Palestinians . The killing of Abu Akleh may significantly contribute to the Palestinians & rsquo ; diplomatic and media warfare against Israel , but it will not necessarily bring more money into the coffers of the PA . The Europeans and other Western donors have , at least in the past few years , been exerting heavy pressure on the PA to end the incitement and tone down its rhetoric against Israel . For now , it & rsquo ; s evident that the pressure has proven to be ineffective . In fact , it seems that matters have been going in the opposite direction . The voices and messages emanating from Ramallah and the Hamas - ruled Gaza Strip have become even more toxic , as evidenced before and during Ramadan . Allegations that Jewish settlers are & ldquo ; storming & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; desecrating & rdquo ; the Aqsa Mosque during their tours of the Temple Mount are sounded almost every day in the West Bank and Gaza Strip . Senior PA and Hamas officials don & rsquo ; t miss an opportunity to accuse Israel of planning to & ldquo ; commit crimes & rdquo ; against one of Islam & rsquo ; s holiest sites , Jerusalem , and the Palestinian people . Against this backdrop , terrorist attacks were carried out in Beersheba , Bnei Brak , Tel Aviv , Elad and Jerusalem . The attacks , which resulted in the deaths of 19 people , are said to be connected , directly and indirectly , to the tensions at the Temple Mount and Jerusalem . Yet , just as the tensions and violence appeared to be fading away , the incident involving the popular Al Jazeera journalist took Israel and the Palestinians back to square one . The PA , Hamas and other Palestinian factions and parties are now using the tragedy to further whip up anti - Israel sentiment among the Palestinians . The protests against the killing of Abu Akleh are likely to continue in the coming days and weeks . The protests , which coincide with the first anniversary of the Israel - Hamas war , could escalate during the Palestinians & rsquo ; annual commemoration of Nakba Day on May 15 in protest against the establishment of Israel . The PA is now hoping to turn the tragedy of the reporter into a new version of the incident involving Mohammed al - Durrah , the 12 - year - old boy who was killed in the Gaza Strip in 2000 after being caught in a crossfire between the IDF and Palestinian security forces . The main goal is to increase the international pressure on Israel to halt all its practices in Jerusalem and the West Bank , including construction in the settlements and security measures at the Temple Mount . The PA & rsquo ; s efforts are directed mainly toward the US and the EU . PA President Mahmoud Abbas wants the Biden administration to & ldquo ; end its silence & rdquo ; and increase its involvement in the Israeli - Palestinian conflict . He wants the Biden administration to exert crushing pressure on the Israeli government to stop all IDF & ldquo ; incursions & rdquo ; into Palestinian cities and villages . He also wants the Biden administration to fulfill all its promises to the Palestinians , especially the commitment to the reopening of the US Consulate in Jerusalem . On the other hand , Abbas and his officials want the EU and other Western donors to unconditionally resume their financial aid to the PA . Meanwhile , there & rsquo ; s growing concern in Ramallah over the rising influence and popularity of Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the West Bank . While it & rsquo ; s true that the IDF crackdown on Hamas and PIJ members serves the interests of Abbas , it nevertheless underscores the weakness and alleged collaboration of the PA with Israel . Each IDF operation and each killing of a Palestinian further erodes the Palestinian public & rsquo ; s confidence in Abbas and the PA . For now , all eyes in Ramallah are set on the upcoming visit of Biden to the region . The PA is hoping that Biden will carry with him a number of gifts for the Palestinians . The talk about the possibility that the US president may visit a hospital in east Jerusalem without the presence of Israeli security officers has already sent a positive message to the PA & ndash ; namely , that the US considers east Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state . But the PA knows that a visit to a hospital carries more symbolism than substance , which is why Abbas has made it clear that he expects the Biden administration to & ldquo ; translate its words into deeds & rdquo ; and fulfill all its promises to the Palestinians without delay . Abbas & rsquo ; s main message to the Americans and Europeans is : Submit to my demands , or the Palestinian Authority will collapse , and you will have a Hamas takeover of the West Bank .