The Likud & rsquo ; s response to the Meron report is indicative of the party & rsquo ; s tactics and strategy surrounding the question of responsibility , accountability , and blame for the October 7 Hamas massacre : Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is not to blame , and anyone who claims so has partisan political motives . The response came from the party , not from the prime minister himself . Netanyahu & rsquo ; s media team knows how to put him in the limelight when they want to : they use video statements , pictures , written statements , and often a mix of all of the above . In this case , a written statement from the Likud party , not the prime minister himself , shows that the prime minister intends to keep himself as far away as possible from the report & rsquo ; s conclusions . The content of the response follows this theme . It begins , & ldquo ; The Meron disaster was tragic , our hearts are with the families of the victims . In practice , the government has already implemented the required conclusions , and the last event at Meron was held with a large crowd and without fault . The government will examine the need to implement additional operational lessons to prevent a repetition of a disaster such as this .& rdquo ; The statement then moves on to accusations : & ldquo ; However , it is unfortunate that for the first time in history , the government led by Bennett and Lapid formed a committee of investigation against its predecessor in the political Right , and in which a central member was a confidante of Lapid , Shlomo Yanai , who received an offer for a spot in the Yesh Atid Knesset list . This is a completely distinct political provocation . Lapid & rsquo ; s cynical and intentional attempt to turn the Meron disaster into a political tool will not succeed .& rdquo ; This response was criticized by members of nearly all of the political parties , including the Likud itself , as well as by a forum that represents the families of the victims , who called it & ldquo ; disgraceful .& rdquo ; It is worth noting that members of the National Commission of Inquiry were chosen by then - chief justice Esther Hayut , not by the Lapid - Bennett government . The Netanyahu government at the time of the disaster dragged its feet in forming the committee , and at first attempted to form a governmental or parliamentary committee , which would give it some power over the identity of the committee members , as well as reduce the impact of its conclusions . Furthermore , the Likud & rsquo ; s response did not mention that Yanai is a retired IDF Major General , a recipient of the IDF & rsquo ; s Medal of Distinguished Service , a former CEO of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries , and , according to Haaretz reporter Yossi Melman , was Netanyahu & rsquo ; s choice to head the Mossad in 2010 ( which Yanai turned down ). Nor did the response mention the other distinguished members of the commission & ndash ; former Supreme Court President Miriam Naor , who was replaced by Tel Aviv District Court president Devorah Berliner , and Rabbi Mordechai Karelitz , former mayor of Bnei Brak . Instead of at least acknowledging the fact that Netanyahu was found to bear personal responsibility for the disaster , the response attempts to discredit the members of the committee . Other than saying that the government will examine whether there are any more lessons to implement , the response does not address any of the sweeping systemic failures that the committee found led to the disaster & ndash ; nor the fact that these failures were exacerbated during the decade before the disaster , during which Netanyahu was prime minister . Likud responds similarly to October 7The response is indicative of how the Likud has responded to the October 7 massacre . At least on two occasions , the Likud put out immediate responses to reported intelligence failures leading up to the massacre , in which it said that Netanyahu was not aware of the intelligence and that he was not forewarned by IDF officials . The prime minister has promised that there will be a committee of investigation , but it is not clear when such a committee will be formed . In addition , since the October 7 massacre , he mentioned the word & ldquo ; responsibility & rdquo ; in just one press conference & ndash ; and said that he was & ldquo ; responsible for the future of the State of Israel ,& rdquo ; which implied that he was not responsible for events in the past . The government was slammed with responsibility for the failures of October 7 , and at first , the word & ldquo ; responsibility & rdquo ; was uttered by no one ; slowly , that changed . IDF Chief of Staff Lt .- Gen . Herzi Halevi said it first , followed by Defense Minister Yoav Gallant and Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich . Netanyahu still has not . A direct line links the Likud & rsquo ; s response to the Meron report and its statements since the October 7 massacre : Netanyahu is not responsible , and whoever claims so has political motives . This is likely to continue , and it is thus not clear how and when those who bear responsibility for the events of October 7 will be held accountable .& nbsp ;