& nbsp ; Israel ' s Holocaust commemorations this year have a searing significance for six elderly survivors now deeply scarred by the Hamas attacks of Oct . 7 that sparked the ongoing Gaza war . The killing and kidnapping spree by Palestinian infiltrators on a Jewish holiday morning shook the sense of security of Israelis - not least , those who had witnessed the state emerge as a safe haven after the Nazi genocide . For Bellha Haim , 86 , the upheaval is especially profound . Her grandson Yotam - like her , a resident of a village near the Gaza border - was taken hostage by Hamas and managed to escape , only to be accidentally shot dead by Israeli soldiers . The trauma drove Haim to return to her native Poland , which she had fled with her family as a child during World War Two , and where she will , on Monday , take part of the " March of the Living " at the site of the Auschwitz death camp . The annual ceremony is timed to coincide with Israel ' s Holocaust Remembrance Day . A cohort of university presidents and chancellors from America and Canada will participate in the 2024 International March of the Living . The event will be headed up by former US Secretary of Education Dr . John King , now the Chancellor of SUNY , and Yeshiva University President Rabbi Dr . Ari Berman . Dr . King leads a system of 64 colleges and universities in New York State , the largest comprehensive system of public higher education in the United States . The trip will come to a close after Holocaust Remembrance Day , during which participants join Holocaust survivors on a solemn march from Auschwitz to Birkenau to commemorate the Nazi horrors ." I never went back , and I wasn ' t convinced to go back ," Haim said during a meeting with other survivors ahead of the trip ." But this time , when they told me that they were connecting the Holocaust and what I call the ' Holocaust of October 7 ' - because then in the Holocaust we ( Jews ) were not a united people , we didn ' t have a country , and suddenly this pride of mine that has been broken , my pride in my people and my country that was shattered in front of my eyes - I said , ' This time I will break my oath , and I will go out .'" As a teenager , Yotam had taken part in the annual Auschwitz vigil , and Haim said she saw the event as a chance for communion with him and other victims of the Hamas attack ." I will go out in the name of Yotam , who marched there when he was in high school , and I will go out there to shout out the cry of the slain , of the babies , of all my good friends that I will never meet again ,& rdquo ; she said . Yelling in Arabic and gunfireAmong those joining her will be 90 - year - old Daniel Louz , whose hometown , Kibbutz Beeri , lost a tenth of its residents to the Palestinian terrorists . In some ways , he said , that ordeal was worse for him than the European war , when he escaped Nazi round - ups in his native France , although half his family perished in Poland . After he awoke to the sound of Arabic yelling and gunfire , " I was constantly busy with surviving and figuring out what to do ," Louz said . " In France , as a child , I suffered all kinds of post - traumas that I & rsquo ; ve learned to cope with . But in Beeri , it was the first time that I felt the fear of death ." A neighboring house was riddled with bullets . Louz ' s was untouched . He says he imagined the souls of the six million Holocaust victims steering Hamas away from him . " They probably wanted me to be here to tell this story ," he said , weeping . Other Holocaust survivors participating in the March of the Living include Smil Bercu Sacagiu , 87 , whose home was hit by a rocket from Gaza , and Jacqueline Gliksman , 81 , whose home was torched by a Palestinian infiltrator ." What was left , and luckily the terrorist didn & rsquo ; t see it , is my grandchildren ," she said , referring to gold figurines on a necklace she was wearing . " That ' s the only thing I have left ." Before he was seized , Haim ' s grandson left a text message : " They & rsquo ; re burning down my house . I smell gas . I ' m scared ." She said that it reminded her of a Holocaust - era song in Yiddish , invoking centuries of pogroms , with the refrain " fire , Jews , fire ." A veteran campaigner for peace with the Palestinians , Haim said she would no longer pursue that activism ." I ' m not able to ," she said . " Now what interests me is only my people .& rdquo ; Jerusalem Post Staff contributed to this report .& nbsp ;