The French movie The Sixth Child , which opened in Israeli theaters on Thursday , brings to mind the famous line from Jean Renoir & rsquo ; s The Rules of the Game : & ldquo ; The awful thing about life is this : everyone has their reasons .& rdquo ; The Sixth Child , directed by Leopold Legrand , is an intricately constructed tragedy about two couples who choose to make an awful but understandable decision , and they all have their reasons . What & rsquo ; s brilliant about it is that , as heartrending as this story is , there are no obvious villains & ndash ; other than a heartless economy and an unfeeling adoption bureaucracy & ndash ; and no easy answers . As I watched the movie , my loyalties kept shifting among the characters , and I wasn & rsquo ; t always sure where it was going & ndash ; one of the highest compliments I can give any movie . What is The Sixth Child about ? The movie starts out showing the tough lives of Franck ( Damien Bonnard , who can currently be seen in Poor Things ) and Meriem ( Judith Chemla , who starred in the Israeli film The End of Love ), a Roma couple struggling to make ends meet as they raise five children in a trailer park , which they have chosen because it is near good schools . Franck is a scrap metal dealer , and when his partner picks a fight , he , too , gets in trouble with the law . Julien ( Benjamin Lavernhe , who recently appeared in Jeanne du Barry and who was also in The Sense of Wonder ), the lawyer Meriem hires to get him out of the jam , is understanding and makes a payment plan . To thank him , Franck insists that Julien and his wife , Anna ( Sara Giraudeau , one of the stars of The Bureau ), who is also a lawyer , stop by for a beer . Anna isn & rsquo ; t interested at first but then is charmed by their children , and it turns out that she can & rsquo ; t have any of her own . They have tried IVF several times and it failed , and psychologists have given her damning reports when they have tried to adopt , essentially saying she wants a baby too badly . A little while later , when Franck comes to Julien & rsquo ; s office unannounced , Julien thinks it is because he needs more help with his case . But it & rsquo ; s not that : Meriem is pregnant with what will be their sixth child . They are devout Catholics and an abortion is out of the question , but they are already packed like sardines into their trailer . Franck desperately needs money for a new van to replace the one that was damaged in an accident ; without it , he can & rsquo ; t support the family . So he proposes an unholy deal : their baby in exchange for money to buy a new van . Julien quickly shuts him down : This would be human trafficking and highly illegal . But when he tells Anna about the incident , she is desperate to go for it . They float the idea of a legal deal : an open adoption , where they would raise the child , but Franck and Meriem would still be the parents and would be in the child & rsquo ; s life . But Meriem can & rsquo ; t bear this idea . She would much prefer to give the baby to this couple and walk away . At this point , Julien is desperate to shut down the whole idea because he knows that to pay the couple for their baby would be wrong , legally and morally . But Anna can & rsquo ; t let go of this dream of raising this baby , and Meriem and Franck have decided they will give the baby up for adoption in any case , since they are in such dire financial straits . Anna & rsquo ; s determination over this baby drives a wedge between her and her husband . Meanwhile , Meriem is despondent about the idea of giving up this baby but know she cannot give another child a good life . THE STORY plays out like a Greek tragedy , in which each character follows his own destiny , no matter how much sorrow it will bring . You wish for a happy ending for all of them , knowing it isn & rsquo ; t possible . At first I thought that the two lawyers would be portrayed as vile , predatory rich people , but the movie goes in a different direction . They are portrayed as deserving of compassion because of their infertility , and if the film is anyone & rsquo ; s story , it & rsquo ; s Anna & rsquo ; s . While it & rsquo ; s clear that capitalism and anti - Roma racism have put Franck and Meriem into an impossible situation , they have a warm , loving family , which Anna and Julien don & rsquo ; t have . There is no explanation given for the fact that they can & rsquo ; t have children , but it is devastating for Anna and , to a lesser extent , for Julien . The four actors work well together , and all give good performances , but the standout is Giraudeau as Anna . It is she who drives the action and can & rsquo ; t give up , willing to sacrifice her upper - class life to become a mother . There have been many movies about parents who fight over children , such as several films based on the Baby M and similar cases , and many fall into clich & eacute ; s . The Sixth Child avoids these pitfalls , although toward the end , some of the resolutions feel too neat . But it & rsquo ; s still a movie where you identify with everyone . You keep turning over their options in your mind , and will likely think about the characters and the story long after the movie ends .