The Border Police on Wednesday shot and killed a masked Palestinian in Shuafat , who had aimed a realistic - looking dummy gun at them , as he fled . A video showing some of the chaos surrounding police and IDF forces preparing to demolish the house of terrorist Udai Tamimi in Shuafat , shows several moments in the back and forth between the sides . At one point in the video , the now - deceased Palestinian is seen aiming his " gun " at Israeli forces and then lowering it when a large car passes by in between the sides . Then at another point , the Palestinian is seen again aiming his " gun " at Israeli forces . While one cannot see the actions of the Israeli forces in the video , at a certain point , the Palestinian turns around and starts running away . After a few seconds of running , he also tosses away the " gun ." A few seconds later in the video , he falls down dead . Police say they didn ' t know the gun was fakeFrom the limited vantage point of the video , it is possible that : 1 ) he was shot at only after he dropped the dummy gun and fled ; 2 ) while holding the gun he aimed at police but then managed to toss the gun and run another 30 - 40 feet before collapsing ; or that 3 ) the police started shooting at him while he held the gun but may have only hit him after he was fleeing . The police said he was hit while still aiming the gun at them . The police reported that they discovered the & ldquo ; gun & rdquo ; was a dummy weapon only after the fact . At the same time , it was unclear whether the killing was justified . If he was hit before he was fleeing it was certainly justified . If he was hit after he dropped the " weapon " and fled , it gets hairier . Rules of engagement in such situations do provide for firing at the legs of such a person who has presented a threat in order to prevent their escape and arrest them . An initial response response from the police did not address the issue of the Palestinian dropping his weapon and fleeing , but did highlight that he had shown all of the open signs of presenting a threat .& nbsp ; The IDF declined to comment , saying that even though there were soldiers in the area , the incident had been managed by the border police .& nbsp ; The police would have been in charge given that the incident was taking place in east Jerusalem as opposed to the West Bank , where the IDF has primacy . Tamimi was killed in mid - October when he was shot dead in a failed shooting attack at the entrance to Ma & rsquo ; aleh Adumim , south of the Israeli capital . He arrived at the entrance to the West Bank city and opened fire at nearby security personnel . According to United Hatzalah volunteer EMT Akiva Skolnick , the terrorist was killed by returning fire from the guards . A grenade and knife were found on his person ." Two highly experienced security guards that were at the checkpoint at the city entrance neutralized the terrorist immediately , with bravery and a lot of resourcefulness and without fear ." The shooter was responsible for the killing of 18 - year - old Military Police officer Noa Lazar on October 8 when he opened fire at a checkpoint near the Jerusalem neighborhood of Shuafat . A 30 - year - old security guard remains in intensive care , sedated and on a ventilator . A third person , a soldier , was also injured .& nbsp ;