Oztma Yehudit MK Yitzhak Kreuzer , recently stated his position and the position of his party regarding Rafah and the hostage deal ." The IDF should have entered Rafah a long time ago . We again fall into the trap of Sinwar , who abuses Israeli society . The Jewish people should continue to consider their interests . Unfortunately , what our allies did not do in 1944 , when they refrained from bombing the extermination camps , we see a direct line to today ." Our allies are preventing us from activity in Rafah , which should have been carried out a long time ago . The interest that the cabinet , the government , and the entire Israeli people should include the return of the hostages ." Military action is the only route for the return of hostagesOn the issue of the hostage deal , Kreuzer said , " Ben - Gvir ordered the military operation in Gaza to damage the military capabilities of Hamas . Unfortunately , the prime minister ' s answer was to remove him from the cabinet . We are arguing among ourselves over a deal that does not exist . I think we need to understand and realize that Hamas is an organization that should not exist and has no interest in releasing them . We are obliged to return them all , including Hadar Goldin , who has been there for a long time . We need to focus on our goals , and at the top of the list is to return the hostages . They can only be returned with military action ."& nbsp ;" The failure on October 7 is for all Israeli governments in the last twenty years . If it weren ' t for Ben - Gvir ' s very firm stance towards deals that would endanger the independence of the State of Israel , I think we would be in a much more difficult and dangerous place . The reality is that we will not see all of our hostages return home . We need to stop listening to what comes from that murderer Sinwar . Again , the hostages can only be returned through military action . We won ' t stand for a government that will surrender and allow Hamas to continue to rule ." Regarding the northern sector , Kreuzer added : " I think that the same concept that brought us to October 7 in the Gaza Strip outlines the policy in the North . We put the security of the State of Israel in the hands of foreign countries . When this mission is over , we will certainly have to hold elections and buy the public ' s trust again . If we hold elections while fighting , the system and the little that Otzma Yehudit manages to do will be criticized ." Edited by Michal Kadosh for 103FM radio