The Zimin Institute has been at the forefront of scientific philanthropy for over six years , supporting research at universities worldwide , including Tel Aviv University ( TAU ). Its mission is to harness contemporary scientific insights to address humanity & rsquo ; s challenges , bridging the gap between theory and practicscienal application . An integral part of this process is the & ldquo ; Scope of Research ,& rdquo ; where once a year , a scientific committee and an international committee both work to identify studies that have the potential to create real change in the world , and for collaborations with other research teams from around the world . In addition , the institute & rsquo ; s biannual international conference brings together leading academics , professionals , and investors from around the world to create scientific partnerships and develop breakthrough discoveries . Headed by Prof . David Mendlovic , the Zimin Institute at TAU is among the pioneering & ldquo ; Zimin Institutes for a Better World ,& rdquo ; established by the Zimin Foundation . Driven by the vision of the late Dr . Dimitri Zimin , an engineer , entrepreneur , and philanthropist , these institutes aim to integrate engineering research with medical and healthcare technologies , aligning seamlessly with TAU & rsquo ; s multidisciplinary ethos . The institute takes pride in funding numerous groundbreaking studies , many of which are already making tangible impacts in the healthcare industry , thus realizing Dr . Zimin & rsquo ; s vision of fostering positive change . A recent success story involves Zimin & rsquo ; s investment in early detection technology for fetal malformations and developmental disorders . Building on groundbreaking research in fetal electrocardiograms ( FECGs ) at TAU , this investment has yielded promising results . FECG , the prevailing method for detecting developmental differences and fetal distress , is currently limited by its reliance on invasive techniques or noisy maternal signals . In a breakthrough study , researchers Dr . Dan Raviv and Dr . Shai Tejman - Yarden propose a novel approach to extract FECGs from joint maternal - fetal data using deep learning models . Their method , personalized and self - supervised for each patient , demonstrates real - time extraction of high - quality maternal and fetal ECGs , offering a significant advancement in fetal monitoring accuracy . In the study , researchers Dr . Dan Raviv from the School of Electrical Engineering at TAU and Dr . Shai Tejman - Yarden from Sheba Hospital propose a new approach to extracting the FECG from the joint maternal - fetal data , which comes attached to the common ECG sample from at least two sources . They then train a Deep Learning model to separate the two in real - time . Because this is a difficult task , the researchers created a personalized and self - supervised network for patients . This method trains individually on the data of each patient ( mother and fetus ) and can extract the maternal and fetal ECG in real - time and with high quality . Based on preliminary results using real - world data , the researchers demonstrate that the hypothesis and solution are applicable and feasible . Another medical project funded by the Zimin Institute that is already in its advanced stages is the TENG ( Triboelectric nanogenerator ) sensor , which can restore the sense of touch to people who have lost this sense due to injury , illness , chemotherapy , and more . The sensor is durable , small , and modular and operates using an independent energy source to restore tactile sensitivity without the need for an external energy source , and can be easily and safely implanted under the skin in a variety of places . Today there are millions of people in the world who have lost their sense of touch , and there is currently no approved clinical solution capable of restoring their sensation . Through the unique support that the Zimin Institute offered to the team of researchers , led by Prof . Ben Maoz from the Department of Biomedical Engineering at TAU , a start - up company called Teng - Able was established , and their sensor is currently in the clinical trials phase .& nbsp ;