Since the signing of the Oslo Accords , the peace treaty between Israel and Jordan , and the Wye River Agreement in the 1990s , efforts by politicians and diplomats to resolve the Israeli - Palestinian conflict have stalled . In the 21st century , according to Rabbi Ron Kronish , religious extremism , ultranationalist fanaticism , and intransigent leadership on both sides , fueled by competing narratives about the past and the present , meant & ldquo ; a war process replaced the peace process .& rdquo ; According to Kronish , after then - opposition leader and Maj .- Gen . ( res .) Ariel Sharon made a provocative visit to the Temple Mount , Palestinians launched a Second Intifada ; the Israeli government constructed what it called a & ldquo ; security fence ,& rdquo ; which Palestinians blasted as an & ldquo ; apartheid wall & rdquo ;; and , in 2005 prime minister Sharon ordered what turned out to be a disastrous withdrawal of Jewish settlers and the IDF from the Gaza Strip . These developments , Kronish states in his book Profiles in Peace , have made peacebuilders & ldquo ; the only game in town .& rdquo ; The initiatives of the non - governmental organizations they established , he believes , provide the last best hope to influence decision - makers to reverse course and make compromises to ensure a just and lasting resolution to what is now regarded as an intractable conflict . Can NGOs help decision - makers make peace ? Born in the US and educated at Brandeis University and Harvard & rsquo ; s Graduate School of Education , Kronish immigrated to Israel in 1979 , four months after Israel and Egypt signed a peace agreement . In 1982 , Kronish took to the streets , joining protests declaring the Israeli army complicit in the massacre of Palestinians in the refugee camps of Sabra and Shatilla in Beirut .& nbsp ; From 1991 - 2014 , he served as the founder and director of the Interreligious Coordinating Council in Israel ( ICCI ). A harsh critic of what he calls the & ldquo ; militaristic , anti - Palestinian , pro - occupation & rdquo ; Likud Party , as well as PLO and Hamas terrorists , Kronish is the author of The Other Peace Process ( 2017 ). In Profiles in Peace , Kronish reviews efforts by politicians to resolve the Israeli - Palestinian conflict since the 1967 Six Day War and provides biographical sketches of six peacebuilders & ndash ; three Israelis and three Palestinian Arabs & ndash ; and four members of a younger generation of activists .& nbsp ; Despite & ldquo ; overwhelming obstacles and complex challenges ,& rdquo ; Kronish claims , these men and women have demonstrated that & ldquo ; enriching and energizing & rdquo ; relationships with perceived enemies can be forged , laying the foundation for a common future for Jews , Christians and Arabs . Peacebuilders operate on the assumption that dialogue on subjects of mutual interest , undertaken in supportive settings , enhanced by precepts of trauma healing and conflict resolution , can empower individuals to bridge religious and ethnic differences . Hands of Peace , for example , brings Israeli and Palestinian teenagers to the US for four successive summers . In 2018 , the Alliance for Middle East Peace created a Storyteller & rsquo ; s Project to enlist peacebuilding alumni , including Israeli and Palestinian soldiers , to share their experiences . Again and again ( Profiles in Peace , alas , is often repetitious ), Kronish singles out initiatives to & ldquo ; get to know & lsquo ; the other & rsquo ; deeply ,& rdquo ; and take seriously his or her religious and historical narratives , as central to peace work . Who are the activists ? KRONISH & rsquo ; S ACTIVISTS & ndash ; Huda Abuarquob , Mohammed Dajani Daoudi , Munib Younan , Michael Melchior , Galia Golan , and Hadassah Froman & ndash ; have certainly exhibited an abundance of courage , conviction , commitment , perseverance and resilience . It & rsquo ; s less clear , however , how effective their efforts have been . Kronish does not address studies revealing that contact does not increase religious or ethnic toleration in & ldquo ; weak relationships .& rdquo ; And that self - selection is a significant ( and therefore limiting ) factor in forging enduring relationships with perceived enemies . As Kronish and his peacebuilders acknowledge , moreover , the political context between Israel and the Palestinians has made free and unfettered interreligious and intercultural dialogue difficult to arrange . When Dajani , a professor of American studies and librarian at Al - Quds University , proposed taking 30 Palestinian students to Auschwitz and 30 students to a refugee camp in Bethlehem , a violent response to the trip led to his resignation and the cancellation of the project .& nbsp ; And neither Israeli nor Palestinian authorities accepted the recommendation of Bishop Younan & rsquo ; s Council of Religious Institutions of the Holy Land to revise textbooks in the schools . Most important , during the last two decades , peacebuilders & rsquo ; initiatives have not had a significant impact on Israeli or Palestinian politicians , or for that matter , on public opinion . And so , it should not be surprising that , along with frequent expressions of hope , Kronish & rsquo ; s peacebuilders sometimes give voice to pessimism about the future . Given & ldquo ; the many forces of violence and opposition to what we are doing ,& rdquo ; Froman declares her intention , somehow , to & ldquo ; create a small oasis of peaceful coexistence & rdquo ; in her area of the West Bank .& nbsp ; Convinced that & ldquo ; civil strife may one day lead to the end of Israel , regardless of the occupation ,& rdquo ; Golan finds it & ldquo ; very difficult to be optimistic these days .& rdquo ; Although dialogue has broadened his horizons , Tareq Saman , one of Kronish & rsquo ; s younger peacebuilders , has concluded that & ldquo ; there is no solution to the Israeli - Palestinian conflict & hellip ; It looks like one party will win and the other will lose .& rdquo ; Responding in his prison notebooks to the rise of fascism in the 1930s , Marxist theorist Antonio Gramsci indicated he was & ldquo ; far from feeling beaten . It seems to me that & hellip ; a man out to be deeply convinced that the source of his own moral force is himself & hellip ; never falls into those vulgar , banal moods , pessimism and optimism . My own state of mind synthesizes these two feelings and transcends them ; my mind is pessimistic , but my will is optimistic & hellip ; I imagine the worst that could happen in order to summon up my reasons and willpower to overcome every obstacle .& rdquo ; In all likelihood , Kronish does not endorse Gramsci & rsquo ; s pessimism of the intellect & ndash ; even if the considerable obstacles in Israel , the West Bank and Gaza make it seem reasonable to do so .  The writer is the Thomas and Dorothy Litwin Professor of American Studies at Cornell University . PROFILES IN PEACEBy Ron KronishL . E . A . R . H . N . Peacebuilding Publications215 pages ; $ 22 . 95