The names of five IDF reservists killed in action in the ongoing war against Hamas in Gaza were cleared for publication Saturday night . The five soldiers , most of whom served in the 551st Brigade , are named as follows : Maj . ( res .) Moshe Yedidyah LeiterWarr . Ofc . ( res .) Yossi HershkovitzSt .- Sgt .- Maj . ( res .) Matan MeirSt .- Sgt .- Maj . ( res .) Sergey ShmerkinSt .- Sgt .- Maj . ( res .) Netanel " Nati " HarushWho were the IDF soldiers killed fighting Hamas in Gaza ? Leiter , Hershkovitz , Meir , and Shmerkin were all reservists serving as part of the 551st Brigade . Harush served in the Givati Brigade . Hershkovitz was the principal of the Ort Pelech School for Boys in Jerusalem . His death was confirmed by the school in a statement released Saturday night ." Yossi was a man of kindness and truth , of family and community , and of education in every fiber of his being , who taught hundreds of the city ' s children ," Jerusalem Mayor Moshe Lion said . הצטערתי מאוד לשמוע על נפילתם של יוסי הרשקוביץ ז " ל שנהרג יחד עם עוד 4 גיבורי ישראל , בקרבות הקשים בצפון רצועת עזה . יוסי היה מנהל תיכון אורט פלך בנים בירושלים , איש חינוך מוכר ואהוב שנתן השראה למוריו ולתלמידים . את כל מרצו השקיע בתפקידו כמנהל בית ספר וכאיש חינוך מהמעלה הראשונה .& hellip ; pic . twitter . com / TUL79xifVE & mdash ; יואב קיש Yoav Kisch (@ YoavKisch ) November 11 , 2023Education Minister Yoav Kisch praised him as a " beloved educator who inspired his teachers and students ." Taking to X , Kisch said that Hershkovitz " invested all his energy into his position as a school principal and a first - rate educator ." He continued : " The entire education system is in pain and mourns his death , and will help his family with whatever is needed ." Shmerkin ' s death was confirmed in a statement by the Kiryat Shmona Municipality . Leiter ' s death was mourned by Ariel Elimelech , the head of the settlement Eli where his parents live ." The late Moshe Yedidyah was a soldier who gave a lot to the country ' s security and died for it ," he said , comparing his fate to that of the biblical Book of Job .& nbsp ;" Chani and Hillel , Moshe ' s parents , are pillars of the community . Thousands of Eli residents mourn his untimely death . The nation of Israel has lost one of its best ." הערב משפחת פאודה התבשרה , שחבר צוות ההפקה של הסדרה , רס ״ ר ( מיל ׳) מתן מאיר בן 38 , מאודם , לוחם בגדוד 697 , חטיבה 551 ( עוצבת חצי האש ), נפל בקרב בצפון רצועת עזה . יהי זכרו ברוך . pic . twitter . com / kjkKps9Aoq & mdash ; avi issacharoff (@ issacharoff ) November 11 , 2023Meir ' s death was eulogized by Avi Issacharrof , creator of the hit series Fauda , on which he worked as a production assistant . This is a developing story . The Jerusalem Post and OneFamily are working together to help support the victims of the Hamas massacre and the soldiers of Israel who have been drafted to ensure that it never happens again . Become a partner in this project by donating to OneFamily & gt ;& gt ;