I like museums at night & ndash ; there is just something about seeing the art after most people have gone home .& nbsp ; I had just gone to the first opening at the Israel Museum after the coronavirus pandemic had more or less calmed down , and it was so relaxing to walk through the empty corridors and look out the glass windows at the Valley of the Cross . The exhibit was a large , realistic painting called The Bureaucrat by Matan Ben Cnaan . It shows a group of people in a field in Israel looking pleadingly at a man with a clipboard . The artist said he copied it & ndash ; the grouping , the faces , the tense body language & ndash ; from a photo of prisoners arriving on the platform at Auschwitz . There was a panel at the event , and they had an interesting commentary about it . They seemed to have thought a bit about the same ideas the painting had raised for me : What would I have done if I had lived during the Holocaust ? How would I have protected my son Oren , who is in his 20s and has autism ?& nbsp ; The audience listened intently as they [ the panel members ] spoke . It was such a Jerusalem evening , with those old couples I see at all kinds of exhibitions and events . I used to hate and envy them , especially when I would overhear them talking about their adult children who were finishing the army and going to medical school or opening hi - tech businesses and getting married and having children . I don & rsquo ; t hate them anymore . It & rsquo ; s harder to hate them when they & rsquo ; re wearing corona masks . They look scared and creepy and childlike all at once . But it & rsquo ; s not only that . I don & rsquo ; t hate them anymore because things are different with Oren now .& nbsp ; When the opening was over , I tried to head to the outdoor sculpture garden to wander for a few minutes in the cool air , but it was blocked off . Oren used to like going to the museum and walking in that garden before we slipped into our routine of the zoo every Saturday afternoon .& nbsp ; THE LAST time I remember taking him to the museum was during the summer he turned 18 , one of our hardest times . My mother , who had become too demented to live on her own in New York , had moved in with us . I couldn & rsquo ; t work as much as I had been because I was taking care of her part of the time , and to write at all , I had to hire someone to look after her & ndash ; in addition to the students I hired to help me take care of Oren in the evenings , when he often had tantrums .& nbsp ; So my income was down , my expenses were up , and my mother & rsquo ; s pension and savings were stuck in America and I had no one to help me get them out . The customer service employees on the phone lines would hear the desperation in my voice and put me in the automatic scammer category , denying me access to every account she had .& nbsp ; My ex - husband had always said he would help care for my mother when the time came , but now he was long gone . My mother , angry that I had whisked her away from her beloved New York , was sitting on the couch all day , criticizing me , as mothers do . I had to do all my work and any exercising in my bedroom .& nbsp ; We had just gone through a war with Gaza that had included missiles fired at Jerusalem . It had thrown Oren & rsquo ; s school schedule out of whack ; now it was the end of the summer and he was home for 14 indescribably long days . When his repetitive questions began to bother my mother , she would start yelling at him . I could not leave them alone in the living room , even to go to the bathroom . He didn & rsquo ; t react right away but later in the day , he would have violent tantrums , usually when I told him it was time for him to stop playing on the computer .& nbsp ; But that wasn ' t the worst of itBUT THAT wasn & rsquo ; t the worst of it . The worst of it was that I had stopped sleeping .& nbsp ; All right , that & rsquo ; s an exaggeration . I slept a little , but never more than four hours a night and usually much less . I had a sleeping - pill prescription at one point , but my doctor said it was too much , I needed to stop , and he wouldn & rsquo ; t renew it .& nbsp ; He didn & rsquo ; t understand , though . My father had been bipolar , and I knew how it was when someone stopped sleeping & ndash ; the sloppiness and the craziness that came out . I could feel myself heading that way .& nbsp ; The day we went to the Israel Museum back then , my mother was home watching tennis with my younger son , Ben . It was okay to leave them together , and I hoped my mother would never lose it with him the way she did with Oren . Ben was affected by Oren & rsquo ; s tantrums more than any of us , I felt . Oren was my son ; as his mother , I had signed on for this , for better or worse . But Ben had never asked for any of this , and as Oren & rsquo ; s outbursts had gotten worse , Ben had gotten more and more withdrawn and rarely came out of his room .& nbsp ; Oren and I walked through the sculpture garden that summer day and stopped outside the children & rsquo ; s wing . The guards are real tough asses there , and Oren & rsquo ; s loud voice and jumping would instantly get him thrown out of any other part of the museum . He climbed the structure outside that kids were allowed to climb , a kind of pyramid that he lowered himself down into until only his long feet were visible . Being upside down like that seemed to calm him , and he was quiet as we walked into the children & rsquo ; s wing , where a film about cities was showing , called Dies Irae . The room where it was playing was cool and empty , and we sat down . I had to Google dies irae to find out that it means & ldquo ; day of rage .& rdquo ; The film showed rapidly shifting cityscapes , and Oren and I were both transfixed .& nbsp ; I had brought a book with me to read during any kids & rsquo ; movie we might see there . It cheers me even now to remember that I was actually reading a book then . How could I ever have found the time and energy ?& nbsp ; But it was the perfect book for me right then : The Financial Lives of the Poets by Jess Walter . It was a novel about an unemployed journalist who made disastrous real estate and career decisions and briefly tried to deal weed to help him out of the mess he was in , while coping with a cheating wife and a live - in , senile father . A different story from mine , but we shared a few things & ndash ; including insomnia .& nbsp ; AT ONE point in the story , the hero read an article about chronic insomnia which said that it causes & ldquo ;& lsquo ; a steep decline in neural activity which can eventually lead to severe hallucinations , delirium , manias , even psychotic breaks & ndash ; then death & ndash ;& rsquo ; Then death ? Wait . Just like that ? Shit ... A few days without sleep and you go from slurred speech and bad decisions to ... death ? Well , that hardly seems fair . It feels like they left out a few steps .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; I had seen the psychotic breaks of my own father and I knew I was slipping , slipping . God , I shouldn & rsquo ; t have been driving at that time . It & rsquo ; s funny that they can test your alcohol level but not the fact that you haven & rsquo ; t had a good night & rsquo ; s sleep in months .& ldquo ; Empire State Building ,& rdquo ; said Oren as an image of New York flashed on the screen . He had lived in New York until he was four and was still crazy about the subways and big buildings , which he looked at on YouTube videos . I had not been able to bring him back for a visit in years , his behavior being too erratic , but his love for the city was strong .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; The Chrysler Building ,& rdquo ; he added a moment later .& nbsp ; A few months earlier , when my friends & rsquo ; kids in the US were graduating from high school and my Israeli friends & rsquo ; kids were joining the army , Oren & rsquo ; s father and I had gone to family court to become his legal guardians . That & rsquo ; s what you will eventually have to do when you have a special - needs kid after he turns 18 . The school sent home the initial paperwork , and a government representative came to the school to do back - to - back interviews with parents and the kids & ndash ; just a formality . Eventually , we had to go to the court building without Oren and do some final paperwork . A few weeks later , the document showing we were now his guardians arrived in the mail .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; The Statue of Liberty ,& rdquo ; Oren said , and my mind reeled with gratitude to the filmmakers and curators & ndash ; that they had come up with something that Oren found absorbing .& nbsp ; The day before we visited the museum , The New York Times had run a magazine story on what they claimed were the nearly 10 % of people diagnosed with autism who & ldquo ; lose their diagnosis & rdquo ; and become completely mainstreamed , usually as a result of a kind of behavioral therapy that had left Oren in worse shape than before he started it . People kept emailing this article to me .& nbsp ; I have forgotten almost everything about the Dies Irae film , but it must have been a masterpiece because it made me forget about my mother and all of my other problems & ndash ; for as long as 20 seconds at a time . At the end of the film , a quote from the Requiem Mass appeared on screen , and I scrawled it down on the back page of The Financial Lives of the Poets : Remember that I am the cause of your journey ; Do not lose me on that day . The most relaxing place in IsraelWE WALKED out of the children & rsquo ; s wing . Oren asked to go home , but I couldn & rsquo ; t face the nightly routine yet , with all the possibilities for tantrums and outbursts from my mother , so I suggested walking a little more in the sculpture garden and , to my surprise , he agreed .& nbsp ; It can be the most relaxing place in Israel . Wherever you turn , there is another cluster of trees and another sculpture , and it seems as if you will never come to the end of it . We saw a small white entrance to a boxy structure . I assumed it would be filled with the kind of heavy abstract modern sculpture that I don & rsquo ; t have patience for . But we walked in anyway .& nbsp ; It was a small white marble room , ringed with benches . There was a square opening at the top , and when I looked up at it , I was blinded by the glare of the sun high in the sky . Oren walked across the empty space , sat down on the bench , and tilted his head back . I followed and sat down next to him as he put his feet on the bench and stretched out his long legs . I glanced around to see if there was a sign forbidding this & ndash ; we had been kicked out of so many other spots around the museum before . But there was nothing . I followed his gaze upward and saw that from the side we were on , the square framed a perfectly blue piece of sky , dotted with white wisps . This description doesn & rsquo ; t do justice to the purity of the image . It was a brilliant exhibit , and there was no way you could look at it without being entranced by the beauty of the sky . I glanced at Oren lying there , so sweet and relaxed , and I stretched out myself , my head next to his , looking into that patch of blue & ndash ; and we drifted off to sleep .& nbsp ; We were suddenly awakened by a large and stern guard . I sat up instantly , feeling startled but unusually rested . The problem wasn & rsquo ; t that we had our legs on the bench ; it was that the museum was closing .& nbsp ; Oren understood and was ready to leave .& nbsp ; We walked slowly along the gravel path with the other stragglers .& nbsp ; As I looked at Oren walking alongside the reflecting pool just outside the exit , the sun glittered on the water and I saw that I had not lost him & ndash ; and that I would never lose him . & nbsp ;