The United Nations Security Council plans to hold its second closed - door meeting this week on the escalating violence in the Israel - Palestinian conflict . 

The UN Security Council will publicly discuss the worsening violence between Israel and Palestinian militants on Sunday as well , diplomats said , reaching a compromise over US objections to a meeting on Friday .

Diplomats said the United States , a close ally of Israel , had initially suggested a virtual public meeting could be held on Tuesday .

US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Thursday he hoped waiting a few days would allow for & ldquo ; diplomacy to have some effect and to see if indeed we get a real de - escalation ,& rdquo ; adding that Washington was & ldquo ; open to and supportive of a discussion , an open discussion , at the United Nations .& quot ;

The 15 - member body met on Monday in the aftermath of Jerusalem violence , but was unable to reach the consensus needed for a joint statement .

Officials from individual member states , including China which holds the UNSC presidency this month , issued statements calling on both Israelis and Palestinians to de - escalate the situation .

Five permanent UNSC members have veto power : the US , China , Russia , France and the United Kingdom . The Trump administration gave its unqualified support to Israel , blocking any potential statements and resolutions critical of its actions .

US President Joe Biden has sworn to also support Israel at the UN . Washington delayed Security Council efforts to issue a public statement on Monday , fearing that it could be harmful to behind - the - scenes efforts to end the violence , according to diplomats and a source familiar with the US strategy .

Speaking on condition of anonymity , the source said Washington is & quot ; actively engaged in diplomacy behind the scenes with all parties to achieve a ceasefire & quot ; and was concerned that a council statement might be counterproductive at the moment .

That statement would have expressed concern over the Jerusalem violence ; called on Israel to cease Jewish settlement activities , demolitions and evictions ; and urge general restraint .

This next UNSC meeting comes amid the heaviest barrage of Gaza rocket fire since the 2014 Gaza war . The IDF has launched intensive military counter strikes .

& quot ; The United Nations is working with all relevant parties to de - escalate the situation urgently ,& quot ; spokesperson Stephane Dujarric said on Tuesday . He said Secretary - General Antonio Guterres is saddened by & quot ; the increasingly large numbers of casualties , including children .& quot ;

& quot ; Israeli security forces must exercise maximum restraint and calibrate their use of force . The indiscriminate launching of rockets and mortars towards Israeli population centers is unacceptable ,& quot ; Dujarric told reporters . 

Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Mohammed Shtayyeh called on the UNSC to take serious steps to halt Israeli strikes on the Gaza Strip and its attacks against Palestinians in Jerusalem , including in the Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood and the Temple Mount , known to Muslims as Al - Haram Al - Sharif .