The Meir Amit Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center on Monday published a report explaining why Hamas did not fire rockets in response to the Jerusalem flag march last month , despite threatening to do so . The decision to back off its threat was multipronged , according to the intelligence center & rsquo ; s report , which was prepared by former senior Israeli intelligence people who have ongoing contacts with current Israeli intelligence officials . The reasonsFirst , Hamas said it had succeeded in getting Israel to change the path of the march to a less provocative one as far as al - Aqsa Mosque was concerned . Even though Israel never intended that the flag march route would go near the mosque , Hamas made the statement for propaganda purposes , the report said . Second , Hamas said Israel was extraordinarily well prepared both because it was carrying out a major national IDF training exercise and was on heightened security alert following the Hamas threats . This meant that Hamas would be unable to achieve a surprise as it did in May 2021 . Third , Hamas said many countries had begged it not to fire rockets . Although the Gaza Strip & rsquo ; s rulers said they had not been influenced by these appeals , their spin doctors put forth the communications as evidence of the increased stature of the organization in the region . As time went on , Hamas became more defensive as it endured more verbal attacks from various groups in Gaza for having failed to follow through on its threat . Hamas restated some of its original defenses for not having attacked in a more apologetic manner , but it also said it was not the right time to put the Gaza Strip through an entire wide round of conflict with Israel following the May 2021 war . Hamas officials said the terrorist group did fire eight rockets on May 28 , the day before the flag march , into the sea , demonstrating that it still had rocket - firing capabilities . Israel responded to that demonstration by sending messages to Hamas that it had no intention of escalating the flag march issue , but if Hamas actually fired on Israel , it would face extreme repercussions . Part of Hamas & rsquo ; s problem was that its leader in the Gaza Strip , Yahya Sinwar , made a very strong speech on April 30 that appeared to directly commit it to conflict with Israel . Ultimately , Hamas & rsquo ; s true intentions were not to get Gaza drawn into another conflict , but rather to try to incite east Jerusalem residents , Arab - Israelis and West Bank Palestinians into a conflict with Israel over the flag march , the Meir Amit Center said . In addition , though it is still too early to say , the spring spike in terrorist attacks seemed to wane in mid - and late May , and this may have influenced any Hamas plans to inflame the situation , the report said .