The family of a 21 - year - old man who the Lebanese authorities say was killed by Israeli fire when he and a group of others tried to cross the border fence with Israel held his funeral on Saturday , a day after he died .

The IDF identified a group of protesters who left objects near the  border that they suspected were explosive devices . Three suspects cut  the border fence and crossed into Israel where they were joined by  another four suspects ; they then started a fire inside Israeli  territory , which spread to Lebanese territory .

& ldquo ; The  behavior of the suspects indicated that they were planning to commit a  terror attack in Metulla ,& rdquo ; the military said in a statement .

During  the event , the IDF shot one suspect identified by Hezbollah & rsquo ; s news  outlet Al - Manar as Mohammad Tahhan in the leg . He was identified by the IDF as a Hezbollah member .

The incident took place during a protest on the Lebanese side to support Palestinians , amid a conflict between Israel and Hamas , the Islamist group which rules Gaza .

And the event came a day after three rockets were fired from southern  Lebanon , landing in the sea off of the northern coast of Israel .  Hezbollah distanced itself from the rocket fire ; it is believed that a  Palestinian group fired the rockets .
Members of his family , dressed in black and wearing face masks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus , gathered around the coffin of Mohamed Tahan in his home town of Adloun , in southern Lebanon , to bid farewell , Reuters images showed .
A large poster at the mourning ceremony was emblazoned with his picture , alongside a symbol of the Iranian - backed Lebanese group Hezbollah , which is a staunch opponent of Israel . The poster carried the words : & quot ; On the way to Al - Quds ( Jerusalem ).& quot ;
Protesters gathered again on Lebanon side of border with Israel on Saturday , waving Palestinian and Hezbollah flags .
The Lebanese army deployed in the area , setting up cordons to prevent protesters approaching a border wall that runs along that stretch of the boundary , although some protesters still managed move up close .
UNIFIL , the UN peacekeeping force in Lebanon that monitors the boundary with Israel , said on Friday it had launched an immediate investigation into the incident .

Anna Ahronheim contributed to this report .