At least three anti - government protesters were injured after being run over by a driver during demonstrations in Tel Aviv on Saturday night , according to police . One of the protesters was in moderate condition , while at least two others were lightly injured , according to Magen David Adom . אירוע חריג בהפגנה לשחרור חטופים : אדם הגיע ברכב ודרס מפגינים , אישה כבת 50 נפצעה באורח בינוני , מצבם של שניים נוספים - קל | תיעוד הדריסה ( צילום : איתי רזיאל )@ hadasgrinberg pic . twitter . com / U4DfJFlNDI & mdash ; כאן חדשות (@ kann_news ) April 6 , 2024Footage from the scene showed the driver and passengers yelling at police and protesters before speeding forward and driving over several people . The driver was later arrested . שימו לב - המשטרה האשימה את המפגינים בתקיפת שוטרת . רואים כאן בסרטון השלכת מפגין על ידי שוטר לכיוון השוטרת ופגיעה בה pic . twitter . com / KS918C2Koc & mdash ; לירי בורק שביט (@ lirishavit ) April 6 , 2024Earlier in the evening , police said that a group of rioters began illegally blocking roads at the end of a legal protest in Tel Aviv , lighting bonfires and attacking police officers . The police added that an officer was injured and required treatment after a protester was pushed at her . Initially , the police had asserted that the officer was punched in the face by a protester , but they corrected their statement after a video was published online showing a police officer swinging the protester directly toward the injured officer without any incident of the officer being punched . Anti - government protesters clash with police in Tel Aviv . ( Credit : Israel Police )" Unfortunately , a handful of demonstrators came with the aim of confronting the police with severe violence and not protesting legitimately ," said Israel Police . " We take seriously the violations of the peace , which cause the police to divert forces that are engaged in security tasks and maintaining public safety . We will act with zero tolerance towards those who disrupt the order and behave violently towards police officers ." Protesters blame government for hit and runThe Kaplan Force protest movement expressed outrage at the hit - and - run incident on Saturday night , noting that just a few hours before the incident , Transportation Minister Miri Regev accused the protesters of wanting to murder Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ." The writing is already on the fence ; there are people there with torches to assassinate and kill the Prime Minister ," said Regev in comments to N12 ' s Meet the Press program on Saturday in reference to the protests that have been taking place in recent weeks in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv ." Not only the blood of 1 , 400 murdered people are on the hands of this government , but also the blood of the wounded now in Tel Aviv ," said the Kaplan Force after the incident in Tel Aviv . " The government of the destruction of the house must go , and the people of Israel are determined to win the fight for the future of the country . Opposition leader Yair Lapid accused the government of inciting the hit - and - run incident on Saturday night . " We will not be deterred and will not be made to stop protesting until the hostages are returned and this terrible government falls ," said Lapid . Minister - without - portfolio Benny Gantz condemned the hit - and - run incident , saying , " We all need to make clear statements condemning all violence ."" Comparing the protesters to our enemies and accusing them of wanting to assassinate the prime minister shows a lack of national responsibility ," added Gantz . " It would be appropriate for all public leaders to behave sensitively to all parts of society , especially in these difficult days . I would like to wish a full recovery to the wounded , and I call on everyone - we must not go back to the days before October 7 ." Regev responded to the hit - and - run incident as well on Saturday night , saying , " I condemn violence from any side ," and pointing to " the serious hit - and - run incident tonight , the protesters who attack the security forces and also those who tried to break into the prime minister ' s house with burning torches ." The organizers of an anti - government protest in Tel Aviv reported that over 100 , 000 protesters arrived at Kaplan Street , Walla reported on Saturday . Furthermore , there were demonstrations in over 50 additional areas across the country . In response to the events of Saturday night , at the cabinet meeting on Sunday , the prime minister said that he " condemns any manifestation of violence - riots , violations of the law , trampling protesters , attacking police officers , and wild incitement to violence on social media ."& nbsp ;" I said in the cabinet meeting , and I repeat in the government : countries rise in unity and fall in division ," Netanyahu said .& nbsp ;