Israel & rsquo ; s expanding ground operation is being watched closely by regional media . On Monday , Arab news reports claimed that Israeli tanks were seen on a major road that connects the south of the Gaza Strip , to the north . The reports prompted speculation in foreign media about the progress of the ground campaign : If Salah a - Din Road is under Israeli control ( along with another major road along the coast ), transit across the Strip will be cut for Hamas , essentially splitting the enclave into two . These reports have appeared only in Arab media . The success of the IDF ground troops comes amid continued calls abroad for a pause in operations for humanitarian aid , a ceasefire , and the opening of the border with Egypt as an exit , as well as for goods to arrive in Gaza , like fuel . Al - Ain media postulated that Israel reached into central Gaza at its narrowest point , an area of fields between Gaza City and Al - Bureij camp . This area includes the village of Juhr al - Dik and its surrounding fields . The report calls this the & ldquo ; soft flank & rdquo ; of Gaza , because there is no built - up area , and it can be easily traversed to the sea . The Al - Ain report reads : & ldquo ; From the Zaytoun neighborhood , through the Netzarim Junction , to the Juhr al - Dik area , Israel seemed to be sensing a new phase in its ground operation in the Gaza Strip , on the 24th day of the war .& rdquo ; Cutting the strip in twoThe report goes on to note that moving through this area , near Wadi Gaza and also the Salah al - Din Road , presents a stratagem that cuts the strip in two . & ldquo ; The distance between the border separating Israel and the outskirts of the Zaytoun neighborhood up to Salah al - Din Street is about three kilometers , and they are uninhabited agricultural areas , and therefore Israeli movement in that area is easy ,& rdquo ; the report reads . The report adds that Israel has operated in this area in the past & ndash ; one of the raids last week when Israel entered and retreated from the Gaza Strip . The report says that the area was & ldquo ; subjected to artillery shelling from Israeli vehicles and armored vehicles stationed there .& rdquo ; It also says that & ldquo ; eyewitnesses spoke of the arrival of Israeli tanks to an area just a kilometer away from the Netzarim Junction , located along the eastern outskirts of the Zaytoun neighborhood , also located on Salah al - Din ;& rdquo ; Palestinians in Gaza posted a video of a tank firing on a car . The Al - Ain further report notes that the Netzerim junction is named for the former Israeli community that was evacuated in 2005 under the Disengagement from the Gaza Strip . As such , Israel is familiar with this area that & ldquo ; extends to Al - Bahr Street to the west ,& rdquo ; according to the report . It also notes that Israel would have to cut the Rashid coastal road as well . It explains that prior to 2005 , Israel used to have the ability to cut these two roads in order to isolate the area of Gaza and prevent terrorism . Pro - Iran media expressed worry about Israel cutting this key road . Al - Mayadeen ran a report claiming that Israel had not been able to cut the road , based on Palestinian claims of & ldquo ; resistance & rdquo ; in this area . Clearly , all eyes are not on central Gaza , and the key roads between the north and south . This is as Israel also presses in from the north , along the beach from Zikim , and also toward Gaza City near Beit Hanun and other areas .