The IDF on Friday announced that it has struck over 15 , 000 targets in Gaza since the start of the war . It also said that it has destroyed or seized 6 , 000 war items , though it still is unclear to date how much of Hamas has been defeated . To date , the IDF has said it has killed thousands of Hamas terrorists , but pre - war estimates of Hamas and Islamic Jihad terror forces ranged between 15 , 000 - 50 , 000 . Some analysts have suggested an additional large number of Hamas forces may be dead under rubble where the IDF has attacked but has not yet cleared many areas . Among the war items destroyed by the IDF have been anti - tank missiles , rockets , standard and improvised explosives , ammunition , and other items . IDF tackling tunnelsThe IDF has also made progress in recent days taking over more central Hamas command posts , intelligence centers , tunnel networks , and other war planning areas . According to the IDF , the progress to date has been a byproduct of a new integrated fighting method of sea , air , and ground forces along with using the IDF intelligence advanced artificial intelligence target bank to constantly find new targets and almost automatically distribute them to the front . The Jerusalem Post visited one of the target centers on Thursday and watched targeting decisions occurring in real - time , including attacks on groups of four and six terrorists at separate times . Separately , the IDF reiterated its success late Thursday night in shooting down a drone on its way to Eilat using the Patriot missile defense system . At this point , all four tiers of the missile defense shield have been used : from Iron Dome to the Arrow , to David & rsquo ; s Sling , to the Patriot . The Post has learned that the IDF is making special efforts to move forward with its new laser defense system , but that this system is still not expected to be fully operational or make any significant difference in the current war . Despite that fact , the laser system is viewed as the wave of the future for Israeli missile defense .