Osama Hamden , a senior official in the Hamas terrorist organization ’ s Political Bureau , insisted in an interview with Lebanon ’ s  Bel Moubashar Online that Hamas did not regret the October 7 attack and that a larger “ war of liberation is coming .” The interview , which took place on November 29 , was translated by the Middle East Media Research Institute . The interviewer asked Hamden : “ If you could go back in time to October 6 , would you still do what you did on October 7 ?” On October 7 , Hamas committed a large - scale terrorist attack that killed 1200 people , including babies and foreign nationals . The attack was the deadliest day in Jewish history since the Holocaust . Senior Hamas Official Osama Hamdan : I Promise that a War of Liberation Is Coming Soon – Not Just Another October 7 # Hamas # Palestinians # Israel pic . twitter . com / ILSzPEGDc8 — MEMRI (@ MEMRIReports ) December 1 , 2023Defending the October 7 massacre and promise of future violenceIn response to the question , Hamden answered , “ Why do some people assume that we would want to go back on our acts of resistance ?”“ So you have no regrets ?” the interviewer prompted . “ Regret for shattering an entire division of the occupation army ?” Hamden countered . Following this , the interviewer asked Hamden , “ You said that if Israelis would make new arrests , after all the prisoners are released from [ Israeli ] prisons , you would carry out another operation . So , can you promise another October 7 ?” During Hamas ’ attack , the terrorists kidnapped over 200 Israelis and foreign nationals to be used as hostages . As part of a Qatari - brokered ceasefire agreement , Israel has released terrorists and criminals in exchange for the release of women and children held by Hamas . “ I can promise a war of liberation is coming ,” warned Hamden , “ not just another October 7 .” Hamden also warned that he did not think the war would be “ far off ” when the interviewer asked if the war was planned for the “ foreeable future .” The full interview can be watched below , however it is only available in Arabic .