Israel & rsquo ; s Knesset on Tuesday began a marathon debate to approve a controversial updated version of the 2024 national budget . The national budget in effect is a package of bills that are passed together . The first is the actual budget of each government ministry for the year 2024 ; the second sets the government & rsquo ; s spending ceiling and budget deficit ; and the rest are several amendments to existing bills to adapt them to the new budget , such as a bill to apply a special tax on Israel & rsquo ; s large banks during 2024 . Knesset Finance Committee chairman MK Moshe Gafni ( United Torah Judaism ) blocked voting on several tax provisions aimed at increasing the 2024 national income , such as a new tax on Israel & rsquo ; s central banks , and these have yet to arrive on the Knesset floor . Funding for haredi schoolsGafni did this to protest what he argued was insufficient funding for the haredi school systems . The national budget is likely to pass regardless , with the remaining provisions expected to pass later on in an additional bill when the dispute is resolved . The provisions are expected to add up to approximately NIS six billion in national income between the years 2024 - 2027 . The dispute centers around Gafni & rsquo ; s demand to include the haredi semi - private and private school systems in a reform that passed in 2008 called & ldquo ; Ofek Hadash & rdquo ; ( Hebrew for & ldquo ; New Horizon & rdquo ;), which offers an increase in teacher & rsquo ; s salaries and additional benefits that depend on extracurricular work hours and other parameters . Gafni insists that the haredi teachers deserve to be paid the same as non - haredi teachers , but the reform also requires Education Ministry oversight and other components that he is unwilling to accept . Gafni alluded to this when presenting the budget .& ldquo ; Everyone should know that an injustice is being committed here , and I will continue to fight so that they [ haredi teachers ] receive equal pay for equal work ,& rdquo ; Gafni said . Fellow UTJ MK Yisrael Eichler , chairman of the Knesset Labor and Welfare Committee , who spoke after Gafni , blamed an & ldquo ; aggressive media campaign & rdquo ; to bar haredi teachers from receiving equal pay , which Eichler said was & ldquo ; theft , exploitation , and injustice .& rdquo ; The debate began at 11 : 00 a . m . and is scheduled to run for 25 hours straight , until Wednesday at noon , after which voting will commence . The budget is expected to pass into law on Wednesday afternoon or evening .