Detectives from the police & rsquo ; s Jerusalem District , together with Border Police personnel , arrested four suspects from east Jerusalem , aged 15 - 16 , who made multiple pipe bombs and placed them under a light rail station in Jerusalem . The police became aware of the incident while investigating other incidents relating to the use of pipe bombs and stones thrown at police and other light rail vehicles . From the investigation , it became apparent that the four suspects , some of whom banded together , trained , assembled , planted the explosive charge ( an improvised explosive device ) at a light rail station , and documented the act . Furthermore , the police reported that one of the suspects threw an explosive device towards the light rail , while other suspects threw stones towards the light rail and fled the scene . Police initially responded to reports of alleged gunfirePolicemen were called to the scene following reports of stone - throwing and gunfire . They began investigating and collecting evidence , later discovering that it was actually an improvised explosive device that detonated after being thrown at the light rail rather than the believed gunfire . Jerusalem District investigators uncovered another case in which one of the suspects placed an improvised explosive device under the rail when the train arrived at the platform . Still , the device did not detonate , and the suspect fled the scene . In both cases , there were no injuries to passengers or pedestrians and minor damage was caused to the light rail . Furthermore , it emerged from the investigation that some of the suspects were involved in several other incidents of stone - throwing towards security forces in recent months . The police interrogated the suspects , and the Jerusalem Magistrate & rsquo ; s Court extended their arrest . Upon completion of the investigation by the Police , evidentiary infrastructure was established against the four terrorists , and a prosecutor & rsquo ; s statement was filed against them .& nbsp ;