Israel will forever be grateful to US President Joe Biden for the support that he showed the battered country in the days immediately following the October 7 massacre . Israel will forever be grateful for the way he stood by the country in its darkest hour , how he warned Iran and its proxy Hezbollah not to take advantage of the situation and fully open other fronts against Israel , and how he sent US aircraft carrier strike forces to the region to back up those warnings . And , indeed , Iran and Hezbollah were deterred . Israel will forever be grateful for the way Biden immediately launched an arms airlift to the country , making good on his promise to ensure that Israel has the wherewithal to defend itself . The country will also long remember the way he came here 11 days after Hamas & rsquo ; s attack , the first US president to visit Israel in time of war , and relieved the country & rsquo ; s stunning feeling of isolation by demonstrating genuine sympathy and empathy . Many , frankly , were surprised by the Democratic president & rsquo ; s unequivocal , unstinting support . In the days and weeks immediately following October 7 , Biden did the right thing by Israel . Hamas welcomed the resolution that the US allowed to passOn Monday , by instructing the US not to veto Security Council Resolution 2728 calling for an immediate ceasefire for Ramadan that will lead to a & ldquo ; lasting sustainable & rdquo ; ceasefire but not making that contingent on the Security Council & rsquo ; s call in the same resolution for Hamas & ndash ; which it has yet to condemn for October 7 & ndash ; to release all the hostages , he did the wrong thing by Israel . It did not take long for the consequences of this action to be felt . Just hours after Hamas welcomed the resolution ( imagine the UN Security Council passing a resolution that ISIS or al - Qaeda , Hamas & rsquo ; s twins , would welcome ), the terrorist organization turned down the terms painstakingly hammered out in weeks of negotiations for a ceasefire and hostage release deal . The refusal of the Security Council to even once & ndash ; either through a resolution or in a statement put out by its president & ndash ; condemn Hamas for its October 7 atrocity is staggering . Especially considering that the council knows how to condemn terrorism when Israel is not on the receiving end . For example , on March 22 , one day after a terrorist attack in Moscow killed some 140 people , the council issued a statement condemning & ldquo ; in the strongest terms the heinous and cowardly terrorist attack .& rdquo ; The council swiftly issued a similar statement on Wednesday , within 24 hours of when a suicide bomber in Pakistan killed five Chinese workers and their Pakistani driver . Yet it & rsquo ; s now 174 days since terrorists murdered 1 , 200 people in Israel , kidnapped more than 240 hostages , raped women , burned babies , mutilated bodies , set fire to entire communities , and no similar statement from the Security Council has yet been issued . And some still wonder why Israelis are cynical of world opinion and not particularly moved by Security Council actions . It is clear why Hamas rejected the hostage dealJust as it was clear why Hamas would welcome Monday & rsquo ; s Security Council resolution , it is also equally clear why it rejected the hostage deal on the table . Hamas welcomed the resolution despite its call for an immediate release of all the hostages , because it knows that the world will focus on the first part of the first clause in the nonbinding resolution & ndash ; pressing Israel hard to stop the fighting & ndash ; and pay less attention to the second part of that same clause : a call for Hamas to release all the hostages . Why will the world not press the second part of that clause ? Because it knows full well that Hamas operates way outside the bounds of civil society and that the terrorist organization is not going to heed any such call . It was also clear following the resolution that Hamas would stiffen its conditions on a hostage deal , sensing that if it just holds out longer , international pressure will force Israel to stop the war , enabling the terrorist group to survive to fight & ndash ; meaning to murder , rape , and mutilate & ndash ; another day . Security Council Resolution 2728 undoubtedly strengthened Hamas & rsquo ; s feeling that the international community would & ldquo ; deliver & rdquo ; Israel . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu & rsquo ; s office put out a statement saying as much on Tuesday . & ldquo ; Hamas & rsquo ; s stance clearly demonstrates its utter disinterest in a negotiated deal and attests to the damage done by the UN Security Council & rsquo ; s resolution .& rdquo ; While there is a tendency among many pundits and most opposition politicians to reject anything Netanyahu says and to reflexively place the blame on Netanyahu rather than Biden whenever the two are at odds , in this case , that reflex is misplaced . Put aside whether , as a result of the US failure to veto the resolution , it was wise for Netanyahu to cancel Strategic Affairs Minister Ron Dermer and National Security Council head Tzachi Hanegbi & rsquo ; s trip to Washington this week to consult on how to pursue the war in Rafah ( it wasn & rsquo ; t ), and whether moves such as these have political motivations ( they do ). Nevertheless , Netanyahu is not always to blame in these confrontations with America , nor is Biden always free of fault . Don ' t assume that another PM would have better relations with the USOn Tuesday , one leading columnist wrote in Yediot Aharonot : & ldquo ; Do we need anything more than what is happening in our relations with America to understand the abyss the prime minister is leading us into ? What else needs to happen to understand that every additional day he sits in his chair , our international situation deteriorates , and the crisis with our biggest and only friend & ndash ; our arms supplier & ndash ; gets worse ?& rdquo ; The columnist assumes that were someone else sitting in the prime minister & rsquo ; s chair right now , with the war in Gaza in its sixth month and pictures of Palestinians suffering flooding the traditional and social media in the West , Israel & rsquo ; s situation in the world would be any better . But that is an erroneous assumption . Had even Yesh Atid & rsquo ; s Yair Lapid been prime minister when October 7 happened , it is hard to believe that the country & rsquo ; s policies toward Hamas and the IDF & rsquo ; s way of prosecuting the war would be that significantly different from what they are now . While perhaps there would be more of an emphasis on the & ldquo ; day after & rdquo ; and a more receptive ear to international pleas for more humanitarian aid into Gaza , Israel would have the same war aim it has now of destroying Hamas & rsquo ; s capabilities . That aim & ndash ; unfortunately , because of the way Hamas has chosen to fight & ndash ; will lead to a high number of Palestinian civilian casualties and much Palestinian suffering , regardless of who is sitting in the Prime Minister & rsquo ; s Office . And it is those casualties and that suffering that , more than anything , are driving the wedge between Jerusalem and Washington . If you doubt this , look back to the days of the Naftali Bennett and Lapid tag - team government and think whether Israel & rsquo ; s position among the progressive Democrats in the US was that much better than it is under Netanyahu . It wasn & rsquo ; t , because the anti - Israel progressives and & ldquo ; social justice activists & rdquo ; who are all impacting Biden & rsquo ; s policies right now during an election year are opposed not only to Netanyahu but to Israel itself , regardless of who leads the country . In their minds , Israel is an instrument of white supremacy and imperialism , and regardless of the identity of the prime minister or composition of his government , the Jewish state would still be an illegitimate , racist , colonialist enterprise in their eyes . US officials were quoted as saying that Netanyahu & rsquo ; s decision not to send Dermer and Hanegbi to Washington for consultations was motivated by political considerations . And they are probably right . Being seen as willing to stand up to US pressure plays well politically with Netanyahu & rsquo ; s base . But there is something disingenuous in this criticism of Netanyahu for letting political considerations influence his policies . Are not political considerations now also heavily influencing Biden & rsquo ; s policies in this crisis ? Last month , the US vetoed a similar resolution at the Security Council calling for an immediate ceasefire . Why did it not do the same thing now ? What changed in the interim ? Several things changed . Among them is that the casualty figures in Gaza continue to rise , and another is that Biden is getting pounded by progressive Democrats and Arab Americans for his support of Israel . Biden & rsquo ; s tone and the tone of his administration have changed markedly in the last two months , and that has to do with Arab Americans voting & ndash ; or not voting & ndash ; in Michigan and with progressives unenthused by the Biden campaign , harshly critical of his Israel policy , and threatening either to vote for a third party candidate or stay at home on Election Day , November 5 . Both Biden and Netanyahu are political animals , and both are using their disagreements for their own political purposes . But to say this is all Netanyahu & rsquo ; s fault , and that Israel & rsquo ; s position in the world and in Washington would be sterling even amid a war such as this if someone else were calling the shots in Jerusalem , is unrealistic . This doesn & rsquo ; t mean that Netanyahu & rsquo ; s handling of the relationship with the US during the war has been flawless . It most definitely has not . For example , Netanyahu could have played Monday & rsquo ; s Security Council resolution completely differently & ndash ; accept a two - week ceasefire for the duration of Ramadan to win favor with the Biden administration and the world , and then resume fighting at the end of the Muslim holy month if Hamas did not release the hostages . At that point , Israel could say that it fulfilled the resolution , but Hamas did not & ndash ; placing the onus on the terrorist organization . Netanyahu could have done things differently , but not all the tensions in the relationship can be dumped on his doorstep . Netanyahu & ndash ; with all his faults & ndash ; is not always wrong , nor is Biden & ndash ; with all the support he has given Israel since October 7 & ndash ; always right , as various opposition leaders and leading voices in the media lamenting the current tension in the relationship would have one believe . Monday & rsquo ; s Security Council resolution is a case in point .