Matanyahu Englman has become the first Israeli State Comptroller and Ombudsman to hold the position of president of the European Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions ( EUROSAI ), on Monday . This makes Englman will be the only senior public figure in Israel to serve as head of an international organization . Englman spoke of his new role , during an appointment ceremony , saying : " I would like to extend my deepest gratitude to nearly 50 states for trusting me to lead this esteemed organization , especially in this difficult time , after the severe terrorist attack Israel experienced on October 7 , and with our hostages still in Gaza ."" I see great importance in the European acknowledgment of the State Comptroller ' s Office of Israel ," he continued . " I expect the States of Europe to stand with Israel and bring the Israeli hostages home ," he added . EUROSAIEurosai is an organization which promotes cooperation between European State Audit Institutions ( SAIs ) and & nbsp ; encourages knowledge - sharing between different countries . It holds a Congress every three years , and & nbsp ; is the official start of the new president .& nbsp ; This year , it was held online due to the war in Israel .& nbsp ; President Isaac Herzog opened the ceremony with a speech about the importance of international efforts to bring the hostages home . He also spoke of the role the public audit system plays in safeguarding " the democratic freedoms of our societies ". The outgoing president of EUROSAI , President of the Supreme audit office of the Czech Republic , Miloslav Kala , handed over the EUROSAI Crystal to Englman .& nbsp ; Committing to the values of EUROSAI , Englman expressed his desire to prevent corruption , calling it " paramount to our mission ." He also spoke of his desire to make EUROSAI " a driving force for innovation and excellence in public audit " which he said would be achieved through " robust peer review process ." Englman concluded by saying that the organization would " enhance our interfaces with esteemed international bodies such as the OECD , UN , and World Bank , reinforcing our role as a leading voice in the global audit community ."