The Biden administration is opposed to the forced relocation of Palestinians from Gaza to neighboring Egypt , US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas when he met with him in Ramallah on Sunday . Blinken & ldquo ; made clear that Palestinians must not be forcibly displaced ,& rdquo ; State Department spokesman Matthew Miller said after their meeting . They also spoke about the importance of restoring stability to the West Bank and & ldquo ; the need to stop extremist violence against Palestinians and hold those accountable responsible ,& rdquo ; Miller said . The two met during Blinken & rsquo ; s visit to the region close to one month into the start of the Gaza war . He met with Abbas after holding talks with Israeli officials in Tel Aviv and Arab leaders in Jordan over the weekend . In his meetings with Arab leaders , such as King Abdullah in Jordan on Saturday , he attempted to assuage their fears over the possibility of a forced expulsion of Palestinians from Gaza . US President Joe Biden issued the same message to Abdullah when he spoke with the monarch last Tuesday . They & ldquo ; agreed that it is critical to ensure that Palestinians are not forcibly displaced outside of Gaza ,& rdquo ; the White House said after the call . US National Security Council spokesman John Kirby echoed that sentiment in speaking with reporters last Wednesday . He rejected any reports of a plan to expel Palestinians from Gaza .& ldquo ; I want to stress that is not our policy . That is not what we are after . We want to make sure that the people of Gaza , should they want to go back home , can go back home . But if they want to get out in the interim , they should be able to get out .& rdquo ; Palestinians flee homes in Gaza to escape IDF bombings , failed rocket launchesSome 1 . 4 million of the 2 . 3 million residents of the Gaza Strip have fled their homes in an attempt to escape IDF bombings or explosions from failed Palestinian rocket launches . Hamas claims that close to 10 , 000 Palestinians have been killed since the start of the war on October 7 . Israelis have suggested that Palestinian civilians in Gaza should be temporarily allowed to relocate to Egypt for their safety until the war ends . Palestinians have voiced concern that this would be a second expulsion , akin to what happened to them during Israel & rsquo ; s War of Independence in 1948 when invading Arab countries encouraged them to flee while they & ldquo ; pushed the Jews into the sea .& rdquo ; Some 750 , 000 Arabs fled or in some cases were forcibly expelled from their homes during the war , an event that Palestinians refer to as the & ldquo ; Nakba & rdquo ; ( catastrophe ). PA envoy to the UN Riyad Mansour told the Security Council last Monday that & ldquo ; Israel wants to depopulate the Gaza Strip completely ... and throw them [ Gazans ] into the lap of Egypt in the Sinai desert .& rdquo ; Kirby last Wednesday stressed that & ldquo ; there is no US policy for endorsement for some sort of permanent settlement & rdquo ; of Palestinians outside of Gaza . The war in Gaza was ignited by the infiltration into southern Israel of Hamas terrorists who murdered over 1 , 400 people and took more than 240 people hostage . Hamas official Ghazi Hamad told a Lebanese news outlet this week that his organization would execute more October 7 attacks , because it does not believe that Israel should exist . & nbsp ; Kirby said , & ldquo ; This is what is at stake for the Israeli people , that is what is at stake for the people of Gaza , that Hamas is willing to continue this fight and will continue to try and slaughter innocent Israelis . Those are chilling comments and we all ought to take them seriously .& rdquo ; Hamas , he said , cannot remain in power after the war , he added . An Israeli diplomatic source told reporters on Sunday that the IDF must retain security control of Gaza after the war .& ldquo ; I don & rsquo ; t see a situation where Israel will not have supreme security responsibility in Gaza ,& rdquo ; the source stated . Work must also be done to change the mindset of Palestinian society there , the source added .& ldquo ; It is not enough to restore Gaza . It must be put through a process of de - Nazification ,& rdquo ; the source added . The source noted that the problem was not limited to Gaza , but also included the West Bank .& ldquo ; This culture [ of wanting to kill Jews ] still exists in the Palestinian Authority ,& rdquo ; the source said , warning during the conversation that West Bank settlements were in danger of Hamas attacks . Blinken told Abbas that Washington believes the PA & ldquo ; should play a central role in what comes next in Gaza ,& rdquo ; said a senior State Department official who briefed reporters traveling with Blinken . The official said the future of Gaza was not the focus of the meeting but that PA officials appeared willing to play a role . Abbas told Blinken that Gaza is & ldquo ; an integral part & rdquo ; of the state Palestinians want , according to an account of the meeting from the official Palestinian news agency WAFA , which suggested any PA role in governing Gaza would have to be part of a wider settlement of the decades - old conflict .& ldquo ; We will fully assume our responsibilities within the framework of a comprehensive political solution that includes all of the West Bank , including east Jerusalem , and the Gaza Strip ,& rdquo ; Abbas was quoted by WAFA as saying . Reuters contributed to this report .