The United Nations Security Council must demand Iran & rsquo ; s ouster from Syria and condemn attacks by its proxies against Israel from that neighboring territory , Israel & rsquo ; s Ambassador to the UN Gilad Erdan said .

& ldquo ; Israel calls upon the Security Council to condemn these recurring dangerous acts , and demands a total rollback of Iran and its proxies from Syria and the removal of Iranian military infrastructure from Syrian territory ,& rdquo ; Erdan wrote in a letter he sent to UNSC President and St . Vincent and Grenadines Ambassador Inga Rhonda King .

Erdan wrote his letter after several improvised explosive devices ( IEDs ) were discovered in Israeli territory on its border with Syria in the Golan Heights on November 17 .

Israel immediately retaliated by striking Iranian and Syrian military targets in Syria to thwart additional attacks , he wrote .

The placement of those devices , Erdan wrote , was a & ldquo ; direct violation of the Disengagement Agreement ( 1974 ).& rdquo ;

Similar explosive devices were found there on August 3 , he said .

These devices , he said , could have caused & ldquo ; serious escalation in the region & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; pose a risk not only to the local civilian population , but also to the UN personnel on the ground ,& rdquo ; Erdan said .

& ldquo ; These incidents , conducted by Iran & rsquo ; s proxies in Syria ( Unit 840 of the IRGC & rsquo ; s Quds Force ), prove once again that Syrian territory , including the Area of Separation ( AOS ), is being abused by hostile elements ,& rdquo ; the ambassador wrote .

The Syrian regime & ldquo ; continues to allow Iran and its proxies to use its territory , including military facilities and infrastructure , to entrench its presence in Syria and undermine efforts to maintain stability in the region ,& rdquo ; he added .

Erdan called on the UN to investigate the incidents . He also called for a return by UNDOF forces to & ldquo ; all its positions and of it resuming the full scope of its activities prior to 2014 ,& rdquo ; he wrote .

Lastly , he wrote , Israel holds Syria responsible for all attacks against Israel from its territory and will take & ldquo ; all lawful measures to defend itself from attempts to carry out attacks against our country .& rdquo ;