Labor MKs Gilad Kariv and Naama Lazimi announced on Sunday their support for former IDF deputy chief of staff Yair Golan to be the next leader of the party . The endorsement signals Kariv and Lazimi & rsquo ; s support for Golan & rsquo ; s plan to merge Labor into a larger party that will include supporters of the left - wing party Meretz and members of protest groups against the government . Golan previously served as a member of the Knesset within Meretz . He ran for the leadership of Meretz ahead of the November 2022 election and lost to Zehava Galon . Current Labor chairperson MK Merav Michaeli refused to merge with Meretz ahead of that election , and Meretz eventually failed to pass the electoral threshold .& nbsp ; Golan said in a video statement that Kariv and Lazimi were " excellent parliamentarians " and added , " After I am elected , we will together lead to many more mergers in order to create a large and broad movement ."" The responsibility for change and hope is on us " Lazimi said , " The responsibility for change and hope is on us . We have an opportunity for a diplomatic - security , economic , and social horizon for life itself ." Kariv added , & ldquo ; These days , what is required of us is to join forces and [ create ] collaborations ... Together we will build the joint home for the Zionist Left , a home that will fly the diplomatic - security flag , the social flag , and the democratic flag .& rdquo ; Golan first announced his intention to run for head of Labor on March 7 . Michaeli herself announced that she would not run for another term as head of Labor , and the only other person to announce her candidacy so far is Labor MK Efrat Rayten . Potential candidates have until May 1 to join the party and May 5 to announce their candidacy , and the election itself will be on May 28 . Golan was also endorsed earlier this month by the Kibbutz Movement , whose secretary - general , Lior Simcha , and Kibbutz Economic Organizations Union CEO Yaakov Becher , both said they would act to form a new & ldquo ; social - defense & rdquo ; party led by Golan , that will unify Labor , Meretz , protests movements , and civil organizations .& ldquo ; We must rise from the disaster [ of October 7 ] to a better country whose priorities serve all of Israel . We deserve a government that cares for security and agriculture , settlement , periphery , and healing the schisms in the people ,& rdquo ; Simcha and Becher said .