Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu compared anti - government protesters in Israel to pro - Palestinian protesters in the US in an interview with CNBC on Wednesday ." Everybody ' s fixated on these protests , which are financed , organized , and so on . They don ' t reflect the majority of people any more than the ' mobocracies ' on American campuses . These protesters , these mobs , do they reflect the majority of American people ? No ? Well , it ' s the same thing here ," said Netanyahu .👀 Netanyahu compares Israelis protesting his government / lack of hostage deal to pro - Pales . campus protesters .& ldquo ; These protests .. don ' t reflect the majority of the people anymore than the mobocracies in American campuses .. do they reflect the majority of the American people ? No .& rdquo ; pic . twitter . com / vNyavFpAWb & mdash ; Jacob N . Kornbluh (@ jacobkornbluh ) May 15 , 2024Netanyahu stressed that the majority of Israelis " support a victory " and want Hamas removed , adding that he has " vast support " from the Israeli public . Likud , Netanyahu losing support in pollsProtests calling for elections and a deal to release the hostages being held by Hamas have been held on a weekly basis in the past few months . Several polls over the past few months have found that a large portion of the Israeli public supports early elections and believes Netanyahu should resign . The prime minister ' s Likud party has plunged in polls conducted since October 7th , with a poll published by Maariv on Friday finding that his party would earn just 17 seats , a steep drop from the 32 seats it currently holds in the Knesset . Additionally , when asked who would be a better prime minister , 47 % of respondents to the Maariv poll said that Minister Benny Gantz would be the better option , while 34 % chose Netanyahu . A recent poll by the Berl Katznelson Foundation and the Midgam company found that 60 % of Israelis are unsatisfied with the government ' s conduct regarding security and civil issues , with 43 % of center - right and right - wing voters saying they are unsatisfied . Only 19 % of right - wing voters said they were satisfied with the government ' s performance . In March , a poll by N12 found that 50 % of right - wing Israelis believe early elections should be called , including 40 % of Likud voters .