Communications Minister Dr . Shlomo Karhi announced on Sunday the proposal of a new regulation that will protect the elderly from exploitation and fraud by blocking incoming calls from abroad that are aimed at stealing money . This phenomenon has already affected thousands of consumers and caused severe economic damage to many of them . This proposed regulation will largely focus on protecting the elderly and new immigrants . Karhi stated , " Service to the public in general and consumer protection , in particular , are the basis for any action or intervention in the free market .& nbsp ;" In most cases , non - intervention in the market serves the public well , but corrective action is required in cases of monopoly , exploitation , and fraud .& nbsp ;" Under my leadership , the Communications Ministry will continue to promote a free and competitive market in terms of quality and price , protecting those vulnerable to exploitation . This is what we did with surprise charges for calls abroad , excessive fees on standing orders , the failure to give pensioners discounts at the postal bank , and also here in the issue of exploitation ." Increase in attempted telephone fraud since start of warAccording to reports by the Communications Ministry , since the start of the war , there has been a sharp increase in telephone fraud attempts , mainly targeting the elderly population , especially among Russian - speaking immigrants .& nbsp ; These activities can target both commercial and public entities by utilizing their phone numbers as identifiers , making calls to subscribers appear on their phone screens as originating from legitimate sources . The impostors aim to steal personal and credit information from the victims or persuade them to make various financial transfers under false pretenses .& nbsp ; Typically , this scheme unfolds when the impostors allege that the victim ' s bank accounts or credit cards have been compromised . They then insist that the victim withdraw their funds and transfer them , ostensibly to secure police accounts or coerce them into divulging passwords and sensitive information . Alongside the police , the Communications Ministry is working to prevent the display & nbsp ; of false numbers on cellular devices . Following an increase in scam attempts , which primarily affect the elderly population , and in continuation of prevention activities carried out by relevant authorities , the Communications Ministry published on Sunday a draft amendment to regulations in which provisions are considered to mitigate the phenomenon of impersonation of law enforcement agencies and companies using their phone numbers .& nbsp ; The draft regulations under consideration include a provision stating that an international service provider must block calls originating from outside Israel if the caller ' s number is an Israeli landline . Additionally , it stipulates that a mobile phone service provider should block calls from outside the State of Israel if the caller ' s number is a mobile phone , except for its roaming customers . Further , a service provider will not allow its subscribers to use numbers that are not allocated for their use . Following the necessary preparation period of several months , the changes to this draft regulation are expected to take effect during the coming year to ensure comprehensive protection for the public .