Two rockets were fired at Israel from the Gaza Strip , one week apart from each other . While the IDF shrugged off the first , blaming it on bad weather , it & rsquo ; s now clear . It was not a mistake . It was a message . Hamas is under pressure , and it & rsquo ; s getting worse .

The coronavirus pandemic is wreaking havoc in the blockaded enclave , and Hamas & ndash ; which is in no mood for conflict with Israel & ndash ; tends to send messages in the form of incendiary balloons or rockets when it is under pressure and needs aid .

Though the group was able to effectively deal with the deadly virus during the first wave , the blockaded coastal enclave is suffering from a harsh second wave of the coronavirus , with more than 5 , 517 total cases and 65 deaths , the majority since September .

The Strip & rsquo ; s weak healthcare infrastructure , with fewer than 3 , 000 beds , is unable to cope with all the sick , and is also seeing a record number of daily new cases & ndash ; on Saturday alone the Health Ministry said there were 891 new cases .

Fathi Abu Warda , adviser to the Palestinian health minister in Gaza , was quoted by Wafa news agency as saying on Sunday that there was an & ldquo ; unprecedented hike & rdquo ; in the number of cases and that the European Hospital in Khan Yunis in the south of the Gaza Strip has reached its limit in receiving coronavirus cases .

Thanks to the international aid Israel has let into the Strip , Hamas has been able to increase its testing capabilities from 200 a day during the first wave to 3 , 500 a day , and the number of ventilators has risen to 160 .

Abu Warda also said two truckloads of & ldquo ; urgent medical aid ,& rdquo ; including respirators and medication for those with chronic illnesses , will enter the Strip in the coming days .

But it & rsquo ; s still not enough .

In addition to the coronavirus crisis , the economy is still a disaster & ndash ; with the unemployment rate in Gaza close to 50 %, with those who are employed earning close to nothing . The average monthly income has fallen from $ 244 to $ 29 since March .

Israel & rsquo ; s defense establishment and Southern Command have warned several times that there is a direct link between a worsening economy and rocket fire or incendiary balloons .

Hamas is also becoming further isolated , including from the Palestinian Authority , which recently resumed security cooperation with Israel following the victory of US President - elect Joe Biden . Following the resumption of security ties , Palestinian security forces in the West Bank are expected to renew their arrests of Hamas operatives in the territory .

The normalization of ties between Israel and Gulf states has also placed a strain on Hamas .

And that , the IDF fears , will lead to closer ties with Israel & rsquo ; s enemy on its northern border & ndash ; Hezbollah . Already following the deal with the United Arab Emirates , Ismail Haniyeh , who heads Hamas & rsquo ; s political bureau , met with Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah in Beirut .

There have been more than a dozen rounds of violent clashes between the IDF and terror groups since 2018 , with thousands of rockets fired toward Israel and thousands of Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad targets struck by the Israel Air Force in retaliation .

But all of them ended without any tangible solution , leading the IDF to change its concept toward a new approach , called & ldquo ; Southern Wind ,& rdquo ; which would use higher - quality intelligence and firepower to shorten the length of an operation .

A new concept is all fine and dandy , but when push comes to shove and a large - scale military operation takes place , neither side will end up as a winner . You just have to look at the recent history of the military operations in the Gaza Strip where nothing changed , except that both sides experienced more death and destruction .

So why did the IDF echo Hamas & rsquo ; s lightning excuse when two rockets were fired toward central Israel ?

Neither side wants a large - scale military operation , and the IDF believes that Yahya Sinwar , Hamas & rsquo ; s leader in the Strip , as well as the head of its military wing , Mohammed Deif , still prefer to follow the status quo and avoid confrontation with the IDF .

The rockets fired by Hamas are a message sent by Sinwar , a message that has been received and understood by Israel before . The pressure is rising and something needs to be done before the situation explodes .

& nbsp ;& nbsp ; & nbsp ;
