With a rig set to start pumping gas from Israel & rsquo ; s Karish gas field within weeks , threats by Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah will likely be put to the test , as will the new head of the IDF & rsquo ; s Northern Command , Maj .- Gen . Uri Gordin . According to Matthew Levitt , director of the Jeanette and Eli Reinhard Program on Counterterrorism and Intelligence at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy , Hezbollah wants to & ldquo ; scratch their resistance itch .& rdquo ; While Hezbollah can attempt to do something , it does not want to drag the region into a full - blown war . Lebanon is in such a disastrous state that it understands the need for a maritime border deal , said Levitt , a former counter - terrorism official . But , he added , the group is also willing to put Lebanese citizens at risk and drag Israel into a war just to use it as a scapegoat . Hezbollah , Lebanon ' s massive terrorist armyUnder Nasrallah , Hezbollah has grown into what the IDF describes as a & ldquo ; terror army & rdquo ; with an estimated 150 , 000 rockets and munitions that can hit anywhere in the country . It is believed that in the next war , Hezbollah will try to fire close to 4 , 000 rockets per day to start , followed by some 2 , 000 per day until the last day of the conflict . In comparison , during Operation Breaking Dawn in August , Islamic Jihad fired a total of just more than 1 , 000 rockets from Gaza in three days . In a recent interview with Walla , Gordin said the IDF will prioritize the northern part of the state , since 50 % of Hezbollah & rsquo ; s arsenal is aimed at cities 15 km . from the border with Lebanon , including Nahariya , Acre , Safed and Kiryat Shmona . Another 40 % of Hezbollah & rsquo ; s missiles can reach Haifa and surrounding areas . Only 5 % can reach targets further to the south . Hezbollah has not given up on work on its precision munition project . It is believed that the majority of the alleged Israeli airstrikes in Syria as part of its & ldquo ; war between the wars & rdquo ; campaign have been targeting components for the project . The terrorist group also has sophisticated drones that can be used for reconnaissance missions or carry munitions to attack targets . Though former Israel Air Force Commander Maj .- Gen ( res .) Amikam Norkin has said the IAF lost its aerial superiority over Lebanon , Levitt argued otherwise .& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s complicated and Israel has to take more precautions , but Israel can still go where it needs to , when it needs to , to get what it needs .& rdquo ; Matthew Levitt & ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s complicated , and Israel has to take more precautions , but Israel can still go where it needs to , when it needs to , to get what it needs ,& rdquo ; he said . The group also has significant battlefield experience after their engagement on the side of Bashar Assad during the Syrian civil war . Hezbollah & rsquo ; s elite Radwan forces are a force to be feared and are spread across southern Lebanon waiting for the order to attack Israel .& ldquo ; You have to take the Radwan forces seriously ,& rdquo ; said Levitt . In addition to the on - the - job training and weapons ( including American - made AR - 15s ), the Radwan forces & ldquo ; are disciplined ,& rdquo ; Levitt noted . And while they face challenges such as the loss of senior operatives , many of the Radwan troops & ldquo ; only know fighting in Syria .& rdquo ; While tensions have risen significantly between Israel and Hezbollah , the intelligence community does not think that Nasrallah would drag the entire region into war over the gas rig . The extraction of the gas and the potential signing of a deal between Israel and Lebanon , mediated by the United States , also comes as the West believes there will not be a nuclear deal signed with Iran . Iran already sends $ 800 million annually to Hezbollah , and the lack of a deal would not stop the Islamic Republic from continuing to fund them .& ldquo ; Iran prioritizes them , and withdrawing from the JCPOA did nothing . They can afford it ,& rdquo ; said Levitt . Gordin , who took over the Northern Command from Maj .- Gen . Amir Baram on Sunday evening , knows that some sort of confrontation with Hezbollah will happen under his watch & ndash ; be it a limited round of violence like what happens with Gaza , or a full - blown devastating war between the two sides . Hezbollah took many risks under Baram & rsquo ; s tenure , including firing an anti - tank missile toward an empty military ambulance in 2019 and firing 19 rockets toward empty fields last summer . The group also launched drones toward the Karish gas field in early July . None of those events led to an outbreak of war , but one miscalculation and the story could be totally different . Israel has warned that any infrastructure in Lebanon that serves Hezbollah is a military target . The military has said that it already has thousands of targets at the ready in its target bank . With Lebanon already amid an economic collapse , a war with Israel could lead the country to utter devastation . Is Nasrallah ready to risk that ?