If elections were held today without changes in the party lineup , the National Unity Party led by Benny Gantz would win 30 seats , becoming the largest faction in the Knesset , according to a News 13 poll from Sunday . According to the poll , Likud led by Benjamin Netanyahu would slightly strengthen compared to previous polls , winning 20 seats . Yesh Atid led by Yair Lapid would receive 15 seats . Yisrael Beytenu led by Avigdor Liberman strength in the Knesset would grow to 11 seats , while J Otzma Yehudit led by Itamar Ben Gvir would receive 9 seats . Shas led by Arye Deri would win 8 seats , while the Religious Zionist Party led by Bezalel Smotrich , and United Torah Judaism led by Yitzhak Goldknopf each would gain 7 seats . Hadash - Ta & rsquo ; al led by Ayman Odeh wins 5 seats , and Ra ' am led by Mansour Abbas garners 4 seats . N13 report further claims that in contrast to previous surveys , the Labor Party - which has not yet elected a new leader - would win 4 seats , while the Meretz , New Hope which is led by Gideon Sa & rsquo ; ar , and Balad parties would not pass the electoral threshold . The & nbsp ;& ldquo ; Change Government & rdquo ; parties collectively receive 64 seats , the N13 report states . Meanwhile , the Netanyahu Bloc strengthens compared to previous surveys , amassing 51 seats . In the middle stands the Hadash - Ta & rsquo ; al . Shifting mandate picture & ldquo ; The mandate picture shifts dramatically when examining a scenario where a new center - right party , led by former Prime Minister Naftali bennettt , former Mossad chief Yossi Cohen , and Gideon Sa ' ar , emerges , along with a new left - wing party led by Yair Golan ,& rdquo ; N13 & rsquo ; s report states . In this scenario , the new party led by bennettt , Cohen , and Sa ' ar would win 32 seats - becoming the largest faction in the Knesset . However , the National Unity Party led by Gantz would drop to only 15 seats . Likud , led by Netanyahu , would also drop to 15 seats in this scenario . The left - wing party led by Yair Golan would win 9 seats . N13 & rsquo ; s survey also showed that Yesh Atid , led by Lapid , would weaken due to the formation of the centrist right party and the new left - wing party & ndash ; and would have only 8 seats . Yisrael Beytenu also weakened in the survey and won 7 seats . Additionally , according to N13 , in this scenario Otzma Yehudit gains 8 seats , Shas and United Torah Judaism each receive 6 seats - and the Religious Zionist Party slightly weakens to 5 seats . The survey also examined what is the best timing for elections according to Israelis , N13 reported . According to the results , 33 % of respondents believe that elections should be held by the end of 2024 , while 30 % think they should take place immediately . In total , 63 % of Israelis believe that elections should be held before October 2026 . Additionally , a large majority , 68 %, do not believe Netanyahu ' s statement that Israel stands on the verge of victory in the Gaza war . Only 16 % trust the Prime Minister ' s statement , while 16 % responded that they are unsure . Finally , respondents were asked whether Prime Minister Netanyahu should dismiss National Security Minister Itamar Ben Gvir following his response to the Iranian attack dubbed ' Drone '. 48 % of respondents believe Netanyahu should dismiss Ben Gvir , while 35 % think he should not . 17 % responded that they are unsure .