Israel thwarted an attempted by a Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) terrorist cell to produce rockets and a launcher in the Jenin refugee camp in the northern West Bank in recent weeks , Shin Bet head Ronen Bar revealed during a press conference on Tuesday evening . Bar stressed that Tareq Ezzaldin , a spokesperson for the PIJ who was assassinated by the IDF in the Gaza Strip on Tuesday morning , had been attempting to replicate terrorist capabilities in Gaza to the West Bank and Israel . According to Bar , Ezzaldin directly organized 20 terrorist cells who aimed to murder Israelis , including the cell who attempted to produce rockets . Ezzaldin provided the cells with knowledge and funding ." We have no intention of turning Afula or Shaked into a target for indirect fire ," said the Shin Bet chief . " Most of the activity to thwart these cells is not known to the public , but it is known to us and the risk is known to us and illustrated every day ." Ezzaldin additionally recruited a number of individuals from the Ramallah area and provided them with funds to purchase weapons , including a quadcopter to use in attacks against Israeli civilians . The terrorist cell recruited by Ezzaldin was arrested , thwarting the attack . Bar stressed that these thwarted cells are just a few examples of Ezzaldin ' s " terrorist enterprise ," adding " we have no intention of waiting defensively for threats , but are always acting on the offensive against those sending them , in the Kasbah in Nablus , as happened again this morning , in Gaza City and anywhere else in the Middle East ."" It is important to say , the PIJ is an organization that is fully funded by Iran . The hands are the hands of Palestinians , the voice is the voice of Iran ," added Bar . Operation Shield and Arrow continuesBar ' s statements came during a press conference after a meeting of the security cabinet concerning Operation Shield and Arrow , which broke out after the IDF assassinated three senior PIJ terrorists in Gaza on Tuesday morning . The senior terrorists assassinated in the IDF strikes included : Ezzaldin , Khalil Bahitini , the commander of the al - Quds Brigades in the northern Gaza Strip , and Jihad Ghanem , secretary of the movement ' s military council . They were all killed almost simultaneously , within minutes of each other , by a mix of around 40 aircraft and drones .