Israel should not re - occupy the Gaza Strip , and should make sure Palestinians still rule the area , Commanders for Israel & rsquo ; s Security ( CIS ) and other former top defense officials said in its recommendations for how Israel should handle Gaza post - toppling Hamas . In contrast , several officials familiar with government deliberations on the issues are far more circumspect about sharing their views , and about whether a serious strategy can be framed , before the outcome of the ground invasion ( which continues to be delayed ) becomes clearer . According to the senior former security officials , & ldquo ; The war must end decisively for Israel , in a manner which will restore Israel & rsquo ; s standing and enhance deterrence . Towards this end , diplomatic , economic and other tools of statecraft should be pursued alongside the military campaign .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Israel has no intention of occupying the Gaza Strip and will not reassume responsibility for it . The Gaza Strip must be ruled by a Palestinian government with the assistance of international entities and a direct connection to the Palestinian government in the West Bank ,& rdquo ; said CIS . Further , CIS said , & ldquo ; Israel should relinquish control of the territory captured during the operation as quickly as possible and should not repeat the scenario of becoming mired in the Lebanese quagmire . This imperative does not include territory captured for the purpose of widening the buffer zone .& rdquo ; Questions about this new Palestinian regime in GazaCIS & rsquo ; s strategy paper is one of the most detailed to date on the issue by top officials , though it still leaves many open questions : What form will a new Palestinian regime in Gaza take ? How much will the Palestinian Authority dominate this regime versus local representatives from Gaza ? Given Hamas & rsquo ; s success at eliminating organized internal opposition , how will Gaza have local representatives if none of the class of Hamas , rulers for the last 15 years , will be allowed in the new regime ?& nbsp ; Also : Why will this new Palestinian government , with whatever unidentified international assistance , succeed in keeping Hamas down where the PA , UNFIL , and other international peacekeeping groups have failed in the past to keep down determined local violent groups ? Finally , CIS said to avoid the Israeli model of the early 1980s of interfering with who ran Lebanon , but suggested an unidentified larger security zone . This larger security zone idea is another large piece of what kept Israel mired deep in the & ldquo ; Lebanese quagmire & rdquo ; for almost another 20 years . A top former intelligence official separate from this group gave a wider number of potential choices of what could happen to Gaza post Hamas .& ldquo ; We need to take apart Hamas , and any future ruler of Gaza cannot bring back the military power . All of Oslo was based on the paradigm of demilitarization . We dropped this requirement for Hamas . We need to hand off Gaza to Egypt , or the Palestinian Authority , Jordan , or the UAE ,& rdquo ; said the former top intelligence official . However , he added , & ldquo ; Maybe no one will want to take it .& rdquo ; Despite this dilemma , he stated , & ldquo ; that even in the worst case , it would take years for some other bad actor to achieve the militarization levels of Hamas .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Hamas had 15 years for its military buildup . And it is not just that we did not disrupt their militarization . [ Prime Minister Benjamin ] Netanyahu even helped Hamas with funding and materials . The materials were for building , but they were used for making rockets and tunnels . It does not matter who rules Gaza , we cannot let them rebuild their military power .& rdquo ; This official was possibly being the most blatantly honest of all , recognizing that there may be no perfect solution that can prevent Hamas from at some point regaining control of Gaza . However , he recognized that even if Hamas returned in the worst case scenario , this & nbsp ; would take time , and he was pointing out that that time itself and extra time afterward to rebuild military power , would give a much longer break from large rounds of fighting with Gaza . Former national security council chief from 2017 - 2021 Meir Ben Shabbat said using overwhelming force against Hamas to defeat it quickly and comprehensively is the only thing Israel should be thinking about at this stage .& ldquo ; Israel is exempt from worrying what will happen in Gaza after the war . It must overthrow Hamas and destroy its military capabilities , and let the chips fall where they may ,& rdquo ; said Ben Shabbat , who now also heads Misgav : The Institute for National Security and Zionist Strategy . Ben Shabbat appears to be concerned that the invasion itself continues to be delayed and to look more surgical and less aggressive than Netanyahu and other officials & rsquo ; public statements would suggest . Regarding the multiple officials familiar with government debates on the issue , one noted that Israel may not have a dominant role in deciding who to hand Gaza to , even if it militarily defeats the Gaza group . In other words , once Israel refuses to hold on to Gaza itself , and asks for international help , Jerusalem may be stuck with arrangements sponsored by the UN , the US , or some other mix of powers . Others implied that the invasion itself was so large , and the guerilla war afterward so unclear and vague , that it was nearly impossible to plan post - war issues until the shape of the war itself eventually becomes clearer .& nbsp ;