Hamas , through a senior official , stated its readiness to enter a cease - fire of five years or more with Israel and transition into a political entity if an independent Palestinian state is established along pre - 1967 borders . The official , Khalil al - Hayya , considered Sinwar & rsquo ; s right hand , expressed these views during a recent interview amidst stalled cease - fire negotiations .& nbsp ; Al - Hayya indicated this would only be a temporary stance until Palestinians retain their & ldquo ; historic right to all Palestinian lands .& rdquo ; The Palestinian politician suggested Hamas ' willingness to join the Palestine Liberation Organization and form a unified government for Gaza and the West Bank and the dissolution of its military wing . Despite the devastation caused by recent hostilities , Al - Hayya dismissed Israeli attempts to eradicate Hamas but spoke about a possible truce soon .& nbsp ; Dr . Ghassan Khatib , a lecturer at Birzeit & rsquo ; s University and former minister of labor for the Palestinian Authority , provided his perspective to The Media Line . " It ' s worth waiting to see if this statement reflects a significant shift ," he noted , highlighting a common inconsistency between individual remarks by Hamas leaders and the group ' s official stance . Dr . Khatib further explained the internal dynamics within Hamas : " The statement can also reflect dissent and the debate within Hamas . Different leaders have different views , but it could also be a tactic , considering the imminent threat of the Israeli army to enter Rafah ."& nbsp ; He added that while the promise to dissolve the military wing and pursue a sovereign state was notable , " Hamas being willing to put its guns down isn & rsquo ; t something you hear every day . Dissolving the military wing of Hamas and falling in line with a Sovereign Palestinian State on the 1967 borders would bring a powerful change .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; Whatever the reasons they make this statement now , it & rsquo ; s important to dialogue with Hamas because they are a very relevant part of Palestinian internal politics . Whether the Israelis like it or not , that & rsquo ; s the fact . Even if the statement made by Al - Hayya has conditions unlikely to be accepted by Israel , it is important to continue the dialogue , and this is also true for America and other Western countries ,& rdquo ; he concluded . Natural skepticismWhile Dr . Khatib emphasizes the importance of dialogue with Hamas despite skepticism about their intentions , some suggest a more cautious perspective , questioning the sincerity of Hamas ' statements and suggesting that their motives may be influenced by the immediate threat of Israeli military action . Chuck Freilich , former deputy national security adviser and senior fellow in INSS , told The Media Line , & ldquo ; Hamas is aware of its imminent demise if the IDF enters Rafah . Making remarkable statements , such as the one made by Al - Hayya , gives them more time and feeds into the narrative believed by their supporters worldwide . Still , Israeli leaders should pursue this dialogue in the future if we have a different government .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; If this statement made by Al - Hayya is serious , then they should be open to dialogue after the Israeli conducts its plans to go into Rafah . It ' s doubtful that Israel would entertain such dialogue , as it remains committed to dismantling Hamas . After Hamas is removed from Rafah , then the Palestinians should announce an initiative with their top leaders or with a formal declaration ,& rdquo ; concluded Chuck Freilich . While Hamas has previously maintained a hardline stance against Israel , this shift towards a potential two - state solution represents a notable concession . However , it remains unclear if this signifies a permanent resolution to the conflict or merely an interim step toward Hamas ' longstanding goal of Israel ' s destruction .& nbsp ; Israel nor the Palestinian Authority have yet to comment .