Three members of the Islamic Jihad terrorist movement were killed in a firefight with Israeli forces in the West Bank town of Jaba , near Jenin , early Thursday morning . IDF soldiers and Border Police officers were operating in the area to arrest Palestinians suspected of terrorist activity when the three began firing on the Israeli forces from within a vehicle nearby . The Israeli forces fired back and killed the three . In the car , Israeli forces found firearms and explosives . Photos from the scene showed the logo of the Islamic Jihad movement on objects in the vehicle after the raid . Slain Palestinians identified as Islamic Jihad militantsThe three Palestinians were identified as Sufyan Adnan Ismail Al - Fakhouri , 26 , Ahmed Muhammad Dheeb Fashafsha , 22 , and Nayef Ahmed Yusef Malaysha , 25 . According to Palestinian reports , the three were released from Israeli prisons just a few months ago . The IDF stated that the three are suspected of carrying out a number of shooting attacks in recent months . The three were identified as Islamic Jihad militants Ahmad Bashabsha and Sufyan Fakhouri . A third slain Palestinian , Nayef Maleisha , was also identified as a militant . As the Israeli forces were exiting Jaba , another armed Palestinian began firing at them . The soldiers shot back , hitting the terrorist . Israeli forces were reinforced in the area of Jaba on Thursday morning following violent clashes that broke out in response to the killings . During the operation in Jaba , Palestinians shot down an Israeli " Sky Rider " drone operating in the area . The IDF stated that there is no concern over information leaks and that the incident will be internally probed . عاجل | إسقاط طائرة مسيرة لجيش الاحتلال في بلدة جبع جنوب جنين . pic . twitter . com / hFDHaXrWm5 & mdash ; شبكة قدس الإخبارية (@ qudsn ) March 9 , 2023Additionally , on Thursday , a 14 - year - old Palestinian named Wallid Nasser succumbed to wounds sustained during clashes with Israeli forces that took place in Jenin earlier this week . The clashes in Jaba come just days after Abdel Fattah Hussain Harusha , the terrorist who murdered Hallel and Yagel Yaniv in Huwara was killed in a firefight with the IDF and the National Counter Terror Unit ( YAMAM ) in Jenin . In total , six Palestinians died in that raid and 26 more were wounded , according to the Palestinian Health Ministry . Two YAMAM officers were lightly injured by Palestinian fire during the raid in Jenin . The Hamas terrorist movement warned that the response to the deaths " will not be long in coming ." Islamic Jihad spokesman Tariq Selmi stated that " the bill of reckoning with the occupation will not be closed , and its continuous aggressions and violations place before the resistance its duties and responsibilities in defending the Palestinian people ." Fatah spokesman Munther al - Hayek responded to the deaths as well , stating " the new assassination crime in Jenin and all terrorist practices to resolve the conflict will not succeed . Blood follows blood , and history is a witness to the people ' s victories ." Nabil Abu Rudeineh , a spokesman for Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas , called the clash and recent violence " an all - out Israeli war against the Palestinian people ." Operation Break the Wave15 Palestinians were arrested by Israeli forces overnight throughout the West Bank as part of Operation Break the Wave , including in Silat ad - Dhahr , al - Yamun and Sebastia , among other locations . National Security Minister Itamar Ben - Gvir congratulated Israeli forces on the operation in Jaba , stating " I congratulate the YAMAS ( Border Police undercover unit ) officers and all the security forces , for the exact operation and the elimination of the abominable terrorists who opened fire at our soldiers , in an attempt to hurt them and murder our heroic soldiers ."" Every terrorist who would try to hurt us must know that his blood is on his head and we will bring him to account . I urge the public to continue to show high vigilance , especially during this period ," added Ben - Gvir . Later on Thursday , four Palestinian fishermen were injured by rubber bullets fired by the Israeli Navy towards them off the coast of the northern Gaza Strip . On Wednesday , IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi met with the heads of settlements and regional councils in the West Bank to conduct a situation assessment and update them on the IDF ' s operations in the area . The settlement leaders expressed appreciation for the IDF ' s efforts to thwart terrorism and raised a number of issues that need handling in the West Bank , including the distribution of firearms among Palestinians , the need for accelerated work on roads and infrastructure and stone and Molotov cocktail throwing . The head of the Gush Etzion Regional Council Shlomo Neeman stated after the meeting " Regular discourse and full cooperation between IDF officers and authorities are part of our routine ." Ne ' eman thanked Halevi for the conversation and wished him success in his new role as chief of staff ." The citizens of the State of Israel are entitled to travel safely on every road in Judea and Samaria ," added Ne ' eman . " There is no difference between a stone - thrower or a terrorist who carries out a shooting , both have one goal - to hurt the people and the state and kick us out of here . Only the heavy hand of the security forces against each danger will return deterrence and quiet to the area ." IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi held a review of the recent violence in the West Bank with the commander of the IDF ' s Central Command on Wednesday . Halevi praised the soldiers under Central Command for the complex operations they carried out in recent weeks ." These complex operations send a clear message to terrorists , that we will get to every terrorist and capture or hit every terrorist , wherever they are ," said Halevi . The chief of staff additionally reviewed the riots that took place last week in Huwara , in which hundreds of Israeli settlers torched dozens of homes and vehicles and shot and killed a Palestinian citizen after two Israelis were murdered in a terrorist attack in the town . The commanders at the meeting noted that the pogrom in Huwara was " a very serious incident that should have been prevented ," noting that the violence was unusual in its scope and intensity . The commanders noted that lessons were learned concerning improvements needed for cooperation between the IDF , Border Police , Israel Police and Shin Bet and that improvements are needed in the security forces ' ability to rapidly redeploy in developing situations ." This is a serious incident that occurred on our watch - and should not have happened ," said the chief of staff . " The chain of command correctly decided the order of priorities between the various tasks , but erred in the allocation of forces and control of the event . The expectation from every regular and reservist soldier is to act in a professional and ethical manner and to prevent acts like these , as we trained him and in accordance with the values ​​ of the IDF ."" We will draw the necessary lessons and learn them to prevent similar incidents in the future ," added Halevi .