It quickly became apparent to Ofir Amir , one of the founders and producers of the Supernova music festival , that survivors of the brutal Hamas attack , which left hundreds of festival goers dead or wounded , needed help . And so , Amir and other festival producers founded the nonprofit Tribe of Nova Foundation , in order to help survivors of the festival with their rehabilitation and return to life after the attack . The foundation also works to memorialize those who were killed at the party and to share their stories with the world . Nearly 380 festival participants and police were murdered on October 7 at the trance festival held in southern Israel near Kibbutz Re & rsquo ; im . Countless participants were wounded , and some were taken hostage to Gaza . Shortly after the outbreak of the attack , which began with massive barrages of rockets from Gaza , police told the people at the festival to evacuate . Amir recalled staying a while after the evacuation order to make sure that party - goers were getting out safely . He described his hellish experience that morning , touching on the chaos caused by the Hamas attack , from which party - goers struggled to escape , as terrorists came at them from multiple directions and security forces were overrun . Around 8 a . m ., Amir saw emergency services bring a body into the festival site , and that is when the reality of the situation hit him , he said . After failing to escape in a car crammed with seven people , Amir lay in a field for hours , waiting for help . He was shot , hit in both of his legs . Some of the 20 people hiding near him kept coming to check on him , risking themselves each time . In that field , Amir & rsquo ; s friend , who had also been shot , succumbed to his wounds . Amir was able to help him call his mother to say goodbye . One of the things that kept Amir going , surviving those long hours waiting for rescue , was thinking of his wife waiting for him at home , nine months pregnant . Amir & rsquo ; s daughter was born four weeks later . Heroes on the production staffAmir shared stories of the heroism of other members of the festival & rsquo ; s production staff . Just after the attack , one of the producers posted on social media , asking for those hiding around the party site to share their location with him so that emergency services and civilian rescuers could come and help them . He was inundated with thousands of messages , and was able to save more than 300 survivors of the party who were hiding in the area around the party , Amir shared . He came back every day for the rest of the week following the massacre , at first rescuing survivors , many of whom were wounded , and then locating bodies , said Amir . There are around 3 , 600 survivors , according to the foundation , which is still working to locate anyone who was at the party that day . The foundation is in touch daily with survivors and their families , in an attempt to help them with issues that the state does not provide enough support on . It also advocates for the families in various Knesset and government forums . BAR , WHO survived the attack , is active in the communities that the foundation offers to those who were at the festival . The 28 - year - old Tel Aviv resident came to the event as a production assistant . She has been connected to trance music for years , and that is how she became involved in the Nova festivals , she said . A healing communityBar found the Nova healing communities soon after October 7 .& ldquo ; A few days after the party , I got a message from one the producers , offering us to come to a campus set up for people who were at the party where they could be taken care of ,& rdquo ; she remembered .& ldquo ; It was during a time when I really didn & rsquo ; t want to leave my house . I didn & rsquo ; t want to leave my bed ,& rdquo ; she said . She saw there was a concert at the campus and told a friend , who sent another friend who had been at the Supernova festival to bring Bar to the event .& ldquo ; He literally pulled me out of bed so that we would go ,& rdquo ; she remembered . At the campus , she found a setup that offered a break from how difficult things were , with performances , workshops , food , and drink for those who had been at the party .& ldquo ; I wouldn & rsquo ; t have eaten anything if I wasn & rsquo ; t there ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; I wasn & rsquo ; t able to prepare food for myself , and didn & rsquo ; t want to eat anything ,& rdquo ; she said , remembering how challenging the weeks following the party were . But at the campus , where there was food for the survivors and she was with her friends , she found herself able to eat . For months she came to the campus whenever she could , she said , explaining that she was not working , and was not capable of thinking about working at that time .& ldquo ; The fact that I was able to leave my bed was an added bonus ; the fact that I was able to drive alone was an added bonus . The fact that I was outside my house after dark was a miracle ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; It was unbelievable that I was able to do those things .& rdquo ; Various therapies on offerTHE VARIETY of treatments offered at the campus gave Bar the chance to find things that made her feel better .& ldquo ; They gave us all the options of therapies and said , & lsquo ; Come try them out ,& rsquo ;& rdquo ; she remembered . The atmosphere at the campus was difficult in the days and weeks just after October 7 , but still made Bar feel much better .& ldquo ; At first I saw friends that I hadn & rsquo ; t seen since the party ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; We would cry and hug and couldn & rsquo ; t believe we were there together .& rdquo ; Bar talked about the benefits of the workshops offered at the campus .& ldquo ; It takes you out of your thoughts . Something that holds me back a lot is thoughts ,& rdquo ; she explained . & ldquo ; What happened to me , how did this happen to me , to my friends ? & ndash ; All kinds of unpleasant thoughts that come with the post - traumatic reaction .& rdquo ; When you do activities and workshops , you don & rsquo ; t think of anything , she explained . & ldquo ; You can disconnect for a minute and take this moment with your friends and music .& rdquo ; Community and being surrounded by people who understand is also a major part of her process , Bar shared . & ldquo ; Through conversations we have , I realize that we feel the same ,& rdquo ; she said , explaining the comfort in the community of those who survived the festival .& ldquo ; It makes the situation normal . You realized that it isn & rsquo ; t only you ,& rdquo ; she added .& ldquo ; We understand each other . The community is really strong in that sense .... We are over 3 , 000 survivors . We understand that we are together in this , even if it is hard or bad .& rdquo ; They encourage each other , reminding one another that a bad day will be followed by a better one . Bar expressed gratitude for the foundation & rsquo ; s help with bureaucracy . & ldquo ; They brought social workers and National Insurance Institute representatives ,& rdquo ; making the institutions that could help her get what she is entitled to accessible , she said . Some authorities offered some benefits which the foundation helped survivors access , but generally Bar said that no authority took upon itself to take care of the survivors . The government was MIA , survivors say & ldquo ; The Nova nonprofit has taken it on themselves to help us , and that is something no one else in the country did & ndash ; I & rsquo ; m talking about government authorities . No governmental organization took it on themselves and said that they want to help us ,& rdquo ; said Bar .& ldquo ; There is help for anything ,& rdquo ; she said . & ldquo ; From the biggest to the smallest thing , there is someone there for us .& rdquo ; The Nova nonprofit & ldquo ; deserves huge thanks , and I hope this keeps going and people understand how important this is , and that whoever is able to donates to them , because it really , really helps us ,& rdquo ; she said . Along with the activities described by Bar , the foundation also develops programs for the community of survivors , run by the community , such as a mentorship program . & ldquo ; The best healing comes from survivors helping each other ,& rdquo ; explained the foundation . The foundation has a number of initiatives planned for the future , including founding a center for the community . The center would be a home to activities for the community of survivors as well as a memorial for the victims of the attack . The foundation also plans to lead , in coordination with Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael - Jewish National Fund , a cleanup of the Re & rsquo ; im site , the place where the massacre took place .& ldquo ; The Re & rsquo ; im site is the place where our loved ones had their final moments ,& rdquo ; said the foundation , explaining that they want to & ldquo ; build a campus for families and friends with easy access , and clean up the way the area looks .& rdquo ;