National Unity chairman Benny Gantz & rsquo ; s call for a national election in September was the first time he specified a time for it since the outbreak of the Israel - Hamas war on October 7 . He attributed his decision to the uptick in the intensity and volume of protests against the government over the past week . What Israel needed was & ldquo ; quiet in the ballot box instead of flames in the streets ,& rdquo ; he said . This argument is diametrically opposed to that of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu , who warned in a press conference on Sunday night that an election would create divisiveness and play into the hands of Hamas . An election was a bad idea when we are a & ldquo ; step away from victory ,& rdquo ; he said . This was somewhat contradictory to a comment made earlier in his speech , however , when he said a humanitarian and then military operation in Rafah would & ldquo ; take time & rdquo ; and that there was & ldquo ; no victory without entering Rafah ,& rdquo ; implying that victory was not immediately at hand . Either way , ironically , an election could actually ease the way forward to ending the war in Gaza with a hostage deal and a governing alternative to Hamas . Formally , Israel heads to an election either when the prime minister resigns or when the Knesset passes a bill to disperse itself . Once this happens , the government becomes a caretaker government and remains in power until the next government takes over . Caretaker governments are not supposed to make far - reaching decisions . Still , they are not defined in law , and a number of significant moves were indeed made under them , including former prime minister Yair Lapid & rsquo ; s maritime border agreement with Lebanon in 2022 . As long as Netanyahu & rsquo ; s government relies on its far - right parties , the Religious Zionist Party and Otzma Yehudit , he will be limited in the concessions he is willing to make on a hostage deal and the future of Gaza . With the Knesset officially disbanded , however , the far - right parties lose their leverage ; they cannot threaten to bring down the government since it has already fallen . This could pave the way for an ad - hoc coalition of at least some of the remaining Jewish parties , including those currently in the opposition , to move forward . According to a National Unity Party spokesperson , Gantz & rsquo ; s call for an election & mdash ; along with several policy arguments regarding a hostage deal , the security situation in the North , and the possibility of normalizing ties with Saudi Arabia & mdash ; was intended to point to & ldquo ; where we are headed .& rdquo ; Netanyahu has hesitated to state a clear policy on what the end of the war will look like . Still , he has insisted time again that its three goals & ndash ; defeating Hamas , freeing the hostages , and ensuring that Gaza will never again be a security threat to Israel & ndash ; will be attained . If he concludes that these cannot be achieved within a reasonable time due to the far - right parties , disbanding the government may actually enable him to do so . Of course , this would be a political gamble , which Netanyahu is famous for avoiding . He would be ferociously attacked by the parties to his right and would likely lose votes to those parties . It also is not optimal from a democratic standpoint because governments should not take advantage of their caretaker status to implement policy . But if the prime minister comes to the realization that an election in the coming year is unavoidable , he may benefit from being the one to initiate it , portraying himself as the responsible adult who is attentive to public sentiment . The Likud , as it usually does , attacked Gantz in response and accused him of engaging in & ldquo ; petty politics .& rdquo ; With Gantz making the first move , there may come a time in the coming months when Netanyahu realizes that Gantz has a point and makes a move himself .