A month before the Gaza war , things were going well for Israel . The Abraham Accords were going strong and a vaccination campaign had made Israel an envy during the pandemic . The peace agreements appeared to herald a new era in the Middle East and all that was required was to keep Iran and its proxies from trying to destabilize the region . A new US administration was keen to increase the US role around the world and support human rights . That might mean no more chaotic policies , like the flip - flops of the Syria withdrawal in 2018 - 2019 . & nbsp ;

On May 22 , after the recent Gaza war , the Palestinian Authority mufti was expelled from al - Aqsa for not supporting Hamas . Hamas was riding a wave of popular support , claiming it had defeated Israel . Protests in many countries had targeted Jews and articles slamming Israel were being printed in newspapers worldwide . China had led efforts at the UN critiquing Israel and in the US , several far - left members of the Democratic Party were calling Israel & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; and pushing to stop arms sales . 

Israel support was declining among key supporters , such as American Evangelicals . Hamas was more popular than ever suddenly and it wasn & rsquo ; t even being condemned for firing 4 , 000 rockets at Israeli civilians , of which some 60 fell in Israeli cities and towns . There & rsquo ; s talk now of a shift in how countries will approach Hamas and it has received more legitimacy in the weeks since the war than in the decades prior . 

Hezbollah and Iran were empowered and not deterred . Pakistan & rsquo ; s top diplomat was spouting antisemitism on CNN , and Turkey , along with Iran , was leading the charge to sanction and isolate Israel . In the West Bank , Palestinians were celebrating the Hamas victory . Groups like Human Rights Watch and other anti - Israel groups were talking Israel & ldquo ; apartheid & rdquo ; and arguing for a one - state solution . Anti - Israel activists sensed the tide had turned : Israel could be eliminated as a & ldquo ; settler - colonial state .& rdquo ; Iran agreed .& nbsp ; 

How did it come to this ? 


ISRAEL HAD largely kept Hamas isolated and ossified in Gaza since the 2014 war . Cut off from many supplies by Egypt , it had few friends . It had tried to expand that dwindling support abroad in 2019 and 2020 through visits to Turkey , Malaysia , Qatar and Iran . However , Israel & rsquo ; s new relationships in the Gulf appeared to show that Israel was now accepted in the region and a new alliance with Greece and Cyprus could promise new energy deals . Turkey , concerned about the incoming presidency of Joe Biden , was talking reconciliation across the region after being empowered by the Trump administration . The US was & ldquo ; back ,& rdquo ; Biden said . & nbsp ;

When the Biden administration came into office it was after an unprecedented era of uncertainty in the US , with COVID and the former US President refusing to concede . The Middle East was not a priority . Israel had close cooperation with US Central Command and good relations with the US regarding its desire to protect its interests . It was able to act against Iranian entrenchment in Syria . There was no big push for peace . There wasn & rsquo ; t even a new US ambassador in Jerusalem . But a slow drumbeat was beginning .

In preparation for the incoming Biden administration , the human rights group B & rsquo ; Tselem released a report on Israel apartheid . By April 27 , Human Rights Watch would follow suit . On April 29 , the Palestinian Authority postponed its elections , fearing a Hamas victory . Israel had held elections on March 31 and continued to be divided . It was the fourth elections in two years . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu did little to form a coalition . 

A ray of hope was the rise of Ra & rsquo ; am and its head Mansour Abbas . He looked willing to join an opposition coalition after breaking from the Joint List . By May 5 , President Reuven Rivlin had tasked Yair Lapid with forming a government after Netanyahu failed once again to create a coalition . 


MEANWHILE , tensions were growing in Jerusalem . Ramadan had begun and with , it there were clashes with Israeli police at Damascus Gate . After attacks on Orthodox Jews there was a right - wing rally on April 22 and several were wounded . A dispute in east Jerusalem @@@ s Sheikh Jarrah neighborhood began to get some international and Palestinian attention . Hamas vowed to defend Al - Aqsa . 

On Quds ( Jerusalem ) Day , May 7 , Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei said Israel was a terrorist state . Iran & rsquo ; s IRGC head Hossein Salami also slammed the Jewish state and predicted that it could suffer a tactical defeat or be blockaded at sea . Hamas and Hezbollah made similar statements . Hamas warned Israel that it would respond to Jerusalem clashes and on May 10 , to coincide with Israel & rsquo ; s Jerusalem Day marches , fired rockets at Jerusalem . 

Israel , with Lapid and Naftali Bennett seeking to form a coalition to replace Netanyahu , began airstrikes on Gaza . By May 12 , Bennett had ended discussions on a new government . Riots across Israel in Arab and mixed towns created a crisis . Border Police were rushed to Lod . Attacks and lynchings began on both sides from Bat Yam to Umm al - Fahm , Rahat , Jaffa and other places . There had been clashes in Jaffa since April 20 . 

Now things took a turn for the worse . Israel called up almost 10 , 000 reservists , and sent Golani and 7th Armored soldiers to the border of Gaza . It rushed support to the West Bank where shooting attacks and clashes grew . The attacks had begun with Palestinian terror cells targeting the Tapuah junction in early May . Another shooting attack took place on May 7 , near a post at Salem in the West Bank . Israel said the shooters were planning a worse attack .& nbsp ;


WHEN ISRAEL retaliated on May 10 , Hamas put into action a plan to use thousands of rockets to pound Ashkelon , Ashdod and Tel Aviv , as well as Israeli airports and population centers . It used drones and planned to use unmanned submarines . It sent anti - tank guided missile ( ATGM ) teams to the border to strike at Israeli vehicles . This was a sophisticated , planned operation , in which up to 140 Hamas rockets would be fired at once in massive barrages . 

Hamas had perfected this over the years with various rocket attacks at sea , practicing for this scenario . It also showed off new long - range rockets with a range of up to 250 km ., targeting Eilat and perhaps Dimona as well . It knew that a Syrian S - 200 had been fired that triggered alerts near Dimona on April 22 .& nbsp ; 

With Iranian support , there were attacks in the North as well . On May 13 , rockets were fired into the sea from Lebanon and protesters laid siege to Israel @@@ s border with its northern neighbor on May 18 . It may have come from Iraq . Rockets fired on May 19 even flew near Kiryat Yam , near Haifa . This was a serious incident . It followed the April 27 downing of a Hezbollah drone . & nbsp ;

Now Hamas and Fatah activists are battling over Al - Aqsa , as clashes showed on May 23 , and Hamas is saying that its war has harmed the Abraham Accords . & nbsp ;

It & rsquo ; s not clear whether Hamas knew its plans would work or the degree to which Iran advised Hamas on this strategy . It is also not clear if the benefit to Hamas and Iran was merely a lucky turn of events for them and that timing dictated the need to go to war but the results were far from certain . Clearly , Hamas didn & rsquo ; t have much to lose . 

Israel , on the other hand , has much to lose and it had diminishing returns from its years of sunk costs in Gaza . Iran and Hezbollah wanted to test Israel & rsquo ; s defenses . It increasingly appears Israel walked into a trap in Gaza . It was a trap partially of Israel & rsquo ; s own making due to not having a new government and having strategic planning concentrated in Netanyahu & rsquo ; s office without checks and balances and broader security cabinet discussion .& nbsp ; 