Hezbollah is currently engaged in a war of attrition on the Israeli border , but it is not unlikely that they will receive orders from Tehran to redirect forces to another area they recently fought in & ndash ; northern Syria . In the past week , a wave of protests began in every district of the rebel - held Idlib province in northwestern Syria . This is the last stronghold of the Syrian opposition and the last remnant of the civil war in Syria from a decade ago , a war that ended in other areas of the country in 2018 . Syria ' s Idlib district is not ready to surrenderAt the height of the civil war in Syria in 2015 , opposition forces , led by Jabhat al - Nusra , a jihadist faction of al - Qaeda in Syria , united . The coalition of Islamist organizations pushed the Syrian army out of the Idlib district and has held most of it to this day . This is a district that the Syrian regime cannot afford to ignore due to its strategic location . Idlib is very close to Latakia & ndash ; the stronghold of Syria ' s ruling Alawite community , as well as to Russian military bases in Syria & ndash ; the Russian - operated air force base in Hmeimim and the naval port in Tartus . Despite the relentless Syrian air force bombings on the Idlib district ( including even to the present day ), the opposition maintains control of the area with impressive tenacity . It seems that in recent years , even Assad ' s supporters have given up hope of seizing control of Idlib . Shi ' ite militias have depleted their forces in Syria , and most of Hezbollah ' s men have returned to Lebanon . The Russians ' attention is elsewhere too , as they are deeply involved in the war in Ukraine . Bashar Assad ' s army is not capable of effectively fighting , due to the significant wear and tear it has endured . The economy of Syria is shattered , unemployment is rampant , and the currency continues to lose its value . There is no money to sustain the army or rebuild it significantly . However , this does not stop Assad ' s army from continuing to bomb the civilians of Idlib indiscriminately . The regime ' s message is clear : life in the " liberated " territories will remain a hell until they return to Assad ' s rule . The rulers of Idlib are trying to gain local legitimacy . They changed the name of their organization from Jabhat al - Nusra to " Hay ' at Tahrir al - Sham " ( Organization for the Liberation of the Levant or HTS ) and seemingly distanced themselves from al - Qaeda , but they remain a jihadist fundamentalist group . The areas under the organization ' s control essentially are Islamic emirates with strict religious laws . The region does receive support from Turkey , mainly felt in civilian areas , especially regarding food . However , Turkish aid is limited as Turkey itself is experiencing a complex economic crisis . Overall , the Idlib province suffers from severe poverty and unemployment . Israel is also involved without even knowing itBoth sides , the Syrian regime and the opposition in Idlib , accuse each other of receiving Israeli support . The opposition constantly compares Assad ' s bombings on schools and hospitals to the current situation in Gaza : to them , Assad and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are two similar enemies . The only place in Syria where demonstrations in support of Gaza have taken place since October 7 was in Idlib province . By contrast , the Syrian regime accuses the opposition of seeking help from Israel , as the Israeli Air Force often bombs Assad ' s supporters in Syria & ndash ; mainly Shi ' ite terrorist groups such as Hezbollah . It seems that in the Middle East , the enemy of your enemy can still be your enemy . Opportunity for the Syrian regimeLast week , protests began in various areas of Idlib province against the rule of HTS and specifically against the leader of the organization , Abu Mohammad al - Julani . Al Jazeera recently covered the developments in the province with concern . According to Al Jazeera , which is known for its support of Islamic organizations , the protest arose due to two issues : political and economic & ndash ; the authoritarian rule of the provincial leader , accusations of corruption , and the severe economic crisis . Julani ' s organization recently carried out a wave of arrests of around a thousand activists from various opposition organizations in the province , including activists who had previously belonged to his organization . The released detainees reported severe torture of prisoners who were arrested on suspicion of collaborating with the Assad regime . Analysts attribute the deteriorating situation to the lack of a political solution and a significant reduction in international aid to the province in recent months . This crisis was created due to the uncompromising and unyielding stance of the zealous jihadist ruler Julani , who is not willing to make any political concessions . The current wave of protests openly calls for the overthrow of Julani ' s oppressive rule , which some compare to the repression of the Assad regime . The protesters claim that the current situation is even worse than during Assad ' s rule because it also includes religious repression in the style of ISIS . The protesters demand the establishment of a local council to run the province . HTS is now trying to calm the protests by releasing more prisoners , monitoring price increases , and easing some taxes . However , it seems that the protests have spiraled out of control and are only gaining momentum . Interpreters from the Lebanese Al - Mayadeen outlet revealed that behind the protests stands Turkey , which aims to undermine the control of Idlib from the hands of Julani and return it to the Free Syrian Army under Ankara ' s direct control . The recent developments undoubtedly weaken Julani , who still controls about 75 % of Idlib . This marks the breakdown of the coalition after many years of unity . An opportunity for Assad , a problem for HezbollahThe division , anarchy , and turmoil in the Idlib region undoubtedly present a golden opportunity for control in Damascus , which may not return . Now Assad ' s army could potentially enter the region with significant support to restore it to the embrace of the regime , after almost a decade of neglect . However , this would require substantial support forces . For the occupation of Idlib , a significant asset for the Assad regime in particular , and the " resistance axis " in general , Iran would need to send substantial forces . These forces mainly include Shi ' ite Popular Mobilization Unit militias from Iraq and Hezbollah forces from Lebanon . However , Hezbollah cannot afford a two - front war . Now , Iran ' s axis of resistance , the Syrian regime , and Shi ' ite militias face a crossroads : whether to continue the war in the Israeli arena or redirect forces to northern Syria ? In the case of the Israel front , it is a purposeless war with Hezbollah already suffering over 230 casualties and no achievements against the highly motivated and prepared IDF . In the case of Idlib , however , it presents an opportunity for a significant strategic victory against the disintegrating opposition . Will the Syrian arena affect our northern border ? Will Hezbollah agree to a compromise on our border in order to turn its attention to Syria ? Only time will tell . Dr . Yaron Friedman is a researcher , lecturer , and Arabic teacher in the Department of Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies at the University of Haifa . Yaron manages the newsletter This Week in the Middle East .