Heading in a north - easterly direction from the Arc de Triomphe down Avenue Hoch to number 37 , one reaches Le Royal Monceau hotel ; at its entrance , a red portico and statued heads that cast their gaze over everyone who passes through . The hotel , once a beehive of activity for diplomats , intellectuals , artists , celebrities , and even the commanders of the Allied Armed forces during World War II , in 1946 hosted one of the more curious chance meetings between two political luminaries of the 20th century . Fresh from Black Saturday & ndash ; the arrest of 3 , 000 Jews , including most of the Zionist executive leadership across Palestine & ndash ; and the sealing of Jewish Agency buildings on June 28 , David Ben - Gurion , then - leader of the Jewish Agency , sat in his hotel room pondering his organization & rsquo ; s next move .& nbsp ; Paris , in the early post - war years , was the European center of Zionist activity . While in the city , Ben - Gurion was helping to coordinate the westward migration of Jews who had survived the Holocaust in Eastern Europe , Jews he had hoped would be interested in emigrating to Palestine to help found a new Jewish state .& nbsp ; Staying on the floor above Ben - Gurion at Le Royal Monceau was a & nbsp ; skinny gentleman with the elliptical eyes distinct to natives of Indochina , his hairline receding , and a thin , wispy goatee resting on his chin . To his family , growing up , he was known as Nguyễn Sinh Cung , but by 1946 , he was the prime minister of the newly - found Democratic Republic of Vietnam ( North Vietnam ) and known to the rest of the world as Ho Chi Minh . That summer , Ho Chi Minh was in Paris for follow - up talks surrounding Vietnamese independence from the French . Although captured by the Japanese during WWII , French Indochina had long been a colonial jewel in the French empire & rsquo ; s crown with important natural and strategic resources , its prominent location close to China and other trade routes . Ben - Gurion related to former Maariv correspondent Shmuel Segev , who would write a book on Vietnam , that each day for two weeks , Ho Chi Minh would come down to his room or he would climb a flight of stairs to the Vietnamese leader & rsquo ; s quarters , and the two would talk . During one conversation , Ben - Gurion shared insights into his ongoing problems , prompting Ho Chi Minh to suggest the establishment of a Jewish government in North Vietnam .& ldquo ; He gave the impression of being a nice man ,& rdquo ; Ben - Gurion would later recall of Ho Chi Minh .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; During one of those conversations , he proposed that I immediately establish a Jewish government - in - exile on Vietnamese territory . I thanked him and said that when the time came , I would consider his offer .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; Despite sharing a roof , and becoming & ldquo ; very friendly & rdquo ; over the weeks as the former Israeli prime minister stated , & ldquo ; for obvious reasons , [ the offer ] was unacceptable .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; I am certain that we shall be able to establish a Jewish government in Palestine ,& rdquo ; Ben - Gurion reportedly said , adding that if he wrote to Ho Chi Minh , the latter might invite him to visit North Vietnam .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; He didn & rsquo ; t use Communist slogans ,& rdquo ; Ben - Gurion said , adding that Ho Chi Minh desired to give the impression that he was a nationalist leader fighting only for his people & rsquo ; s independence .& nbsp ; Ben - Gurion also related how he had been able to judge how the Vietnamese negotiations were proceeding with the French by the length of the red carpet at Ho Chi Minh & rsquo ; s door .& ldquo ; At first , the red carpet extended from the street to HoChi Minh & rsquo ; s door ,& rdquo ; the Jewish leader recalled . & ldquo ; In stages , it was removed from the pavement outside , the lobby , and the staircase .& ldquo ; When the carpet outside his door was removed , I knew the talks had failed , and sure enough , a few hours later , he came to my room to say goodbye . He was tired , worn out , and disappointed , and he told me nothing remained but to fight .& rdquo ; A few months later , the First Indochina War began between Vietnamese forces and France . Two roads to independenceDESPITE THE close relationship developed over only a couple of weeks one Paris summer , diplomatic relations between Vietnam and Israel took decades to come to fruition . On Friday , May 14 , 1948 , David Ben - Gurion stood in Tel Aviv and formally declared the independent State of Israel . The next day , the Arab armies of Egypt , Syria , Jordan , and Iraq invaded , along with a corps of volunteers from Saudi Arabia , Lebanon , and Yemen . The burgeoning Jewish State prevailed , although it would face many more obstacles down the road for its freedom . The fight for Vietnamese independence would take a much darker and longer path . While Vietnam was formally partitioned into South and North Vietnam in 1954 , at the end of the First Indochina War , with Israel supporting the Geneva Agreements , diplomatic relations between the two nations never materialized .& nbsp ; Communist North Vietnam maintained a strong relationship with the socialist powers of the day , the Soviet Union and Maoist China , while also cultivating ties with the Arab nations . Israel , on the other side of the metaphorical global Iron Curtain , provided technical aid to South Vietnam without establishing formal diplomatic channels . In June 1967 , as Israel launched a pre - emptive strike against the armies of Egypt , Syria , and Jordan , North Vietnam & rsquo ; s President Ho Chi Minh wrote in a personal wire to Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser , & ldquo ; We are highly indignant at the action of Israeli reactionary agents of the United States and British imperialists . They are doomed to ignominious defeat .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; By 1967 , the North Vietnamese and their communist army , the Viet Cong , were busy themselves fighting a guerilla war against the South Vietnamese and their US allies . By 1969 , over half a million US troops were stationed in the country , and the Vietnam War would claim the lives of almost 60 , 000 US servicemen and women . Ho Chi Minh would die in September 1969 , never living to see the united , communist Vietnam that he had dreamed of and fought so long for . In 1975 , two years after the official end of US military involvement , South Vietnam & rsquo ; s capital , Saigon , fell to the Viet Cong and was renamed Ho Chi Minh City .& nbsp ; Ben - Gurion & rsquo ; s death would follow that of his revolutionary friend a few years later , in December 1973 . After his final years following his retirement from politics living in a modest home in Kibbutz Sde Boker in the Negev Desert , he was buried there alongside his wife , Paula . Israel - Vietnam relationsISRAEL AND VIETNAM & rsquo ; S paths would cross relatively infrequently over the following decades , with one particular infamous encounter taking place .& nbsp ; On June 10 , 1977 , a remarkable rescue operation unfolded when the Israeli freighter ship , the Yuvali , bound for Taiwan , spotted a group of passengers in need . This group , consisting of approximately 66 Vietnamese refugees , marked the beginning of a series of arrivals in Israel between 1977 and 1979 of over 300 people fleeing communist Vietnam . Israeli prime minister at the time , Menachem Begin , drew a poignant parallel , likening the plight of these refugees to that of Holocaust survivors .& nbsp ; Begin famously remarked , & ldquo ; We have never forgotten the boat with 900 Jews , St . Louis , having left Germany in the last weeks before the Second World War ... traveling from harbor to harbor , from country to country , crying out for refuge . They were refused ... Therefore , it was natural ... to give those people a haven in the Land of Israel .& rdquo ; Inspired by this ethos of compassion and solidarity , Begin directed Israeli diplomats to extend a lifeline to the Vietnamese refugees , offering them asylum in Israel . In a poignant moment captured by an Associated Press broadcast on October 26 , 1979 , a grateful refugee expressed profound appreciation to the government of Israel and to Begin , acknowledging their role in opening their homeland at a time when other nations hesitated to offer assistance in the face of communist oppression . Vietnam and Israel would finally establish official diplomatic relations on July 12 , 1993 , followed by Israel opening its resident embassy in the capital Hanoi in December 1993Ben - Gurion & rsquo ; s recollections of his Paris meetings with the tall , skinny Vietnamese man , spotlight the convergence of two revolutionary movements in one place and offer a unique perspective on one of the most important & ndash ; and instrumental & ndash ; periods in the 20th century .& nbsp ; In the post - WWII world , with national borders being redrawn , either along class lines or ethnicity lines , two dedicated men had found themselves in a Parisian hotel room , drawn together by history and the common bond of their enduring fight for their people & rsquo ; s independence .