Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu concluded his security cabinet meeting in the early hours of Friday morning , amid a new barrage of rocket fire from Gaza .& nbsp ;" Israel ' s response , tonight and later on , will exact a significant price from our enemies ," said Netanyahu at the meeting ' s conclusion .& nbsp ; At the meeting ' s conclusion , according to Army Radio , Defense Minister Yoav Gallant said : "[ We are ] prepared for the various possibilities - we will know how to act against any threat ."& nbsp ; Passover rocket attacksRocket sirens sounded across northern Israel on Thursday afternoon , during the Passover holiday , amid a barrage of rocket attacks launched across the northern border with Lebanon , the IDF confirmed . Sirens sounded in dozens of northern Israeli towns and villages , especially in western Galilee , amid a barrage of rockets from Israel ' s northern border . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu ' s office sent out a statement on Thursday afternoon , saying the prime minister will hold a situational assessment with his security cabinet later on Thursday , including Israel Police chief Kobi Shabtai .& nbsp ; The security cabinet is expected to meet at 9 : 15 p . m . Defense Minister Yoav Gallant also said he was familiar with the details of the security situation in Israel ' s North , adding that initial orders were given to the IDF for a response . IDF Chief of Staff Herzi Halevi later convened a meeting with the IDF General staff , with Shin Bet chief Ronen Bar attending as well . ראש המטה הכללי , רב - אלוף הרצי הלוי , וראש השב ״ כ , רונן בר , מקיימים כעת הערכת מצב משותפת עם פורום המטה הכללי בבסיס הקריה בתל אביב pic . twitter . com / WDgA1Id4VE & mdash ; צבא ההגנה לישראל (@ idfonline ) April 6 , 2023Defense Minister Gallant & nbsp ; instructed the defense establishment to advance all options for an Israeli response , in preparation for the security cabinet meeting . Gallant conducted a meeting with the heads of the security organizations , concerning the rocket fire on the last day from Lebanon and the Gaza Strip . In addition , Gallant received an intelligence update on the latest developments in all theaters . The barrage included 34 rocket launches from Lebanese territory into Israeli territory , the IDF confirmed in a statement . Of the 34 rockets , 25 were intercepted in the air , while five landed on Israeli territory . The location of four of the rockets is still under investigation . Local residents reported hearing loud blasts echo across northern Israel , as red alerts sounded out in towns near the Lebanese border , including Matsuva , Shlomi , Hanita , Admit , Eylon , Hila , Rosh Hanikra and Arab al - Aramashe . The rocket barrage from Lebanon comes amid increased tensions between Palestinians and Israeli security forces on Temple Mount , with clashes reported between armed Palestinians and Israeli police in al - Aqsa . The Israeli & nbsp ; Air Force also struck in Gaza on Wednesday in response to rockets fired from the Strip targeting southern Israel earlier this week . One Israeli injured by shrapnel One Israeli was reported lightly injured following the rocket barrage . Magen David Adom said the Israeli was hit by shrapnel , while another Israeli was injured on her way to a shelter and another suffering from PTSD . Galilee Medical Center confirmed that one Israeli , a resident of the Druze village of Yanuh - Jat , was injured while riding a two - wheeler in an open field in the North . As a result of the rockets that landed on Israeli territory , a number of fires broke out and are currently being extinguished , according to the Israel Fire and Rescue services . The northern Israeli city of Kiryat Shmona issued a statement to its resident , urging caution amid the rocket barrage while reassuring them that the city ' s operations will be continued as planned . The municipalities of Nahariya and Karmiel announced that they would open the public bunkers in the city , in preparation for possible events . Following a situation assessment conducted in the municipality , the mayor of Ashkelon , directed the opening of shelters and bunkers throughout the city on Thursday evening , emphasizing that the move was intended to increase the sense of security among the residents and that there were no special instructions at this time . UNIFIL responded to the rocket attack in a statement on Twitter : " Head of Mission and Force Commander Major General Aroldo L & aacute ; zaro is in contact with authorities on both sides of the Blue Line . The current situation is extremely serious . UNIFIL urges restraint and to avoid further escalation ." This is a developing story .