Palestinian terrorists murdered Meir Tamari , a 32 - year - old Hermesh resident , in a shooting attack carried out near the northern West Bank settlement on Tuesday . Tamari was initially seriously wounded in the attack , Magen David Adom said as its paramedics treated him for gunshot wounds to his chest and shoulders , at the scene along with IDF medical personnel . He was rushed to Hillel Yaffe Medical Center in Hadera in serious condition before the medical center reported that he had died . He was married and a father of two young children . The mother of Tamari ' s wife , Tali , is the second wife of Binyamin Horgen , who lost his first wife , Esther Horgen , in a terrorist attack in the Reihan Forest , north of Hermesh , in 2020 . The Fatah - linked al - Aqsa Martyrs Brigades group reportedly took credit for the attack and there were suspicions that the terrorists were hiding in the Jenin area . IDF soldiers operate in the area of a shooting attack near Hermesh . ( Credit : IDF Spokesperson ' s Unit ) Further , the terror group sent out messages to Palestinians in the area to erase any security video camera footage to prevent Israeli security forces from tracking the culprits movements . For their part , security forces were almost immediately on a manhunt to catch the terrorist perpetrators as the IDF erected additional checkpoints to limit their ability to maneuver . There was some controversy from local Israeli leaders who claimed that the incident would have been avoided if a nearby checkpoint had not been abandoned . In contrast , the IDF said that the checkpoint would have made no difference because the shooting took place using a drive - by firing tactic . Even after the incident , the IDF said that while it has increased its presence in the general area and that its nearby forces can man the checkpoint in question quickly if needed , it has no plans to add forces to man the specific checkpoint round - the - clock that local Israeli leaders want to be reinforced . Defense Minister Yoav Gallant said early Tuesday afternoon that he had received a security update on the situation and that he would hold an additional wider meeting with top defense officials in the coming hours . Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu expressed his condolences to the Tamari family on Tuesday afternoon , saying " Our forces are currently in pursuit of the terrorists in order to settle accounts with them , and they will be settled forthwith . Just as we have found every terrorist and closed accounts with them , we will do so this time as well ." EU Ambassador to Israel Dimiter Tzantchev posted on Twitter , & ldquo ; I ' m shocked and saddened by yet another shooting attack in the West Bank , which killed an Israeli father of two . Sending deepest condolences to his family . I condemn this cowardly and brutal act of violence ! We stand together against terrorism , which needs to be rejected by all .& rdquo ; IDF - Palestinian clashes in Israel ' s West BankThere have been several either attempted terror attacks or altercations between the IDF and Palestinians in the West Bank in recent days . In the broader outlook , there has been a series of waves of Palestinian terror from the West Bank against Israel since March 2022 with the IDF engaging in almost nightly raids against Palestinian terror suspects since mid - Spring 2022 . Although there have been multiple dips in terror activity , especially in late 2022 , the IDF has not managed to stabilize the situation in the West Bank to date .