After countless operations in the Gaza Strip where the army failed at legitimizing its actions , the IDF has published several military sites used by Hamas in the heart of urban areas . The sites , including a weapons warehouse next to Shifa Hospital as well as several mosques , will likely be targeted in a future conflict between the two sides . The IDF has been highly criticized during military operations in the densely populated Gaza Strip , both abroad and in Israel . During last year & rsquo ; s 11 - day Operation Guardian of the Walls , the military was condemned for a strike that targeted the 12 - story al - Jalaa tower in Gaza City , which housed AP & rsquo ; s offices , among others . During last year & rsquo ; s conflict , Israel also targeted what they described as Hamas & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; Metro & rdquo ; network of underground tunnels . The strikes on the underground network , 60 km . long , caused some homes to collapse , killing close to 60 people , including children . Though the operation destroyed what the IDF considered was a Hamas & ldquo ; backbone & rdquo ; & ndash ; where its commanders could move troops and weapons and direct attacks against Israel & ndash ; the military was criticized for the civilian deaths . An assessment by Airwars , which tracks all civilian harm by all foreign actors in Syria and other conflicts , found that between 56 - 68 civilians were killed during the strikes targeting the & ldquo ; Metro ,& rdquo ; with at least 25 children having been killed . Another 168 civilians were injured . IDF investigates PR issuesFollowing the May conflict , the IDF opened an investigation into public relations - related issues connected to the conflict and began to work on better coordinating its public advocacy efforts with its actions during war .& nbsp ; While it & rsquo ; s a complex effort , the military believes that legitimizing its actions even before war would provide it with more freedom of action when conflict breaks out . Defense officials said that while the military does not see another war breaking out , preparations for another round of conflict in the Strip are conducted regularly . On Wednesday shared with both foreign and local press several sites used by the terror group that are military targets . Among the sites disclosed to journalists on Wednesday was a tunnel used to store weapons and and move fighters in Gaza City ' s Tuffah neighborhood next to a now - closed Pepsi factory that closed following last year & rsquo ; s war as well as close to a UNRWA & nbsp ; elementary school which is used as an emergency shelter for some 2 , 500 people in times of hostilities . Another tunnel used by Hamas in the Zabara neighborhood of Gaza City identified by the IDF on Wednesday is under a UNWRA school and a central ambulance center with 14 ambulances as well as a medical equipment storage complex . The tunnel also runs under a church and schools that are used as shelters during hostilities . Another site is a tunnel entry shaft that was exposed during last year & rsquo ; s conflict near the al - Azar university in Gaza City which has about 20 , 000 students . According to the IDF , the tunnel entry shaft leads to a network of subterranean tunnels that branches throughout the Tel - Hawa area southwest of Gaza City and is also close to a police station , a UNWRA school , medical clinic , mosque , a community center and UNRWA & rsquo ; s headquarters in the area . According to the IDF , Hamas has a munition production facility located in a building that is also used as a residential building . The site , which contains explosives and flammable material that would cause extreme damage should it explode , is 45 meters from a mosque , 55 meters from a UNRWA clinic that is used as a triage and primary screening center , and 60 meters from Shifa hospital . Shifa is considered the blockaded enclave & rsquo ; s main hospital and treats thousands of patients daily . But it has also been used by the terror group for years , including in the 2009 Operation Cast Lead , when senior Hamas officials hid in the building . It also used the hospital in 2014 during Operation Protective Edge as its main headquarters . The IDF also shared the location of a munition warehouse used by Hamas inside the al - Shahid Mosque in the Bureij refugee camp , in the heart of a civilian neighborhood and next to a public library funded by Germany & rsquo ; s KfW bank . The mosque serves as a community center , providing first aid courses and activities for local children . Another mosque identified by the IDF as an ammunition depot was the Abdullah Azzam Mosque in the Nuseirat refugee camp . According to the army , the mosque is an important part of the camp , is surrounded by residential homes and is just 86 m . from the offices of UNRWA & rsquo ; s North Nuseirat relief and social services .& ldquo ; An explosion , an accident or even a fire in the warehouse could result in injuries to civilians , from worshipers in the mosque to people who come to receive humanitarian aid ,& rdquo ; the IDF said . Following a Wednesday tour of the Gaza Division , Defense Minister Benny Gantz said , & ldquo ; Hamas fires from within the civilian population and into the civilian population & ndash ; the world should charge Hamas a price for its crimes .& rdquo ; Gantz : world must be aware of Hamas ' crimesFollowing a Wednesday tour of the Gaza Division , Defense Minister Benny Gantz said , " Hamas fires from within the civilian population and into the civilian population - the world should charge Hamas a price for its crimes .& rdquo ; Gantz was accompanied by Deputy Defense Minister Alon Shuster , General of the Southern Command Maj .- Gen . Eliezer Toledano , Head of the Operations Directorate Maj .- Gen . Oded Basiuk and Head of the Gaza Division Brig .- Gen . Nimrod Aloni . Gantz said the Defense Ministry has been & ldquo ; working extensively & rdquo ; to create a sense of security for residents of the South , as well as work toward allowing the residents of Gaza to have a better economy while continuing to disrupt Hamas & rsquo ; s attempts to strengthen itself militarily .& ldquo ; Today , the IDF revealed to the world examples of the depth of Hamas & rsquo ; s use of the civilian population , which it chooses to put in the front line of fire ,& rdquo ; Gantz said . & ldquo ; The whole world should be exposed to the crimes committed by Hamas , and exact a heavy price for that .& rdquo ;