Shavuot is one of the most celebrated holidays among the kibbutzim , expressed through lively processions showcasing their agricultural pride , dancing , and singing . While dozens of kibbutzim celebrated the holiday on Tuesday , incessant sirens in the North disrupted residents ' festivities . In Kibbutz Kfar Szold , located about 5 kilometers from the Lebanon border , celebrants wore white attire as is customary on Shavuot . Amidst joyful music , incessant sirens blared , and the sky filled with missiles and rockets . The dissonance was evident , especially in the surreal sight of laughing children ." Like fireworks , how beautiful ," they exclaimed , showing awe amidst the chaos . Celebrants of all ages seemed almost indifferent to the turmoil above , remaining in place , documenting , filming , and laughing at the somewhat eerie displays in the sky . The situation was entirely different when looking at Kibbutz Neot Mordechai . While festivities also took place there , residents also dressed in white . The sound of sirens and the numerous explosions in the sky caused everyone to run in hysteria and fear . Parents searched for their children , shouting their names . Panicked cries of " Mom , Dad " echoed everywhere . The uncanny sight of missiles and rockets in the sky changed the holiday atmosphere in a matter of moments . Shavuot festivities amidst threat " We all gathered as a family in Kibbutz Amir at my brother ' s house after the traditional celebrations in the kibbutz dining room ," shared Yoram Even - Zur , a member of the Upper Galilee Regional Council . " On the way there , the sirens began blaring . The rockets amidst the festivities underscore the importance of living in the Galilee . We ' ve been living here under a tangible threat for eight months already ." About 250 , 000 people participated on Tuesday , with the same number of participants expected on Wednesday , in celebrating Shavuot in the kibbutzim . All ceremonies featured calls for the return of the hostages . Dozens of displaced celebrated the holiday in border kibbutzim , despite Hamas & rsquo ; attack on Israel on October 7 , where residents from 56 kibbutzim in the western Negev and northern border relocated to hotels and temporary accommodations . Shavuot is a major holiday at the kibbutzim , marked by gatherings on central lawns and watching the traditional parade . Alongside the usual white festive attire , this year , yellow was added - the color of the families ' campaign for the release of the hostages . A unified call resounded to approve the ' Netanyahu Deal ' to bring the hostages home . Even in Metula , a traditional procession took place . Unlike previous years , only the remaining students of the preparatory class rode decorated tractors , symbolizing hope for the return of the hostages from Gaza , alongside two Katyusha rockets from Lebanon that hit two homes the night before .