Against the backdrop of the ongoing 46th day of the war against Hamas , the question arises of how the terrorist organization perceives the large - scale ground operation carried out by the IDF in the Gaza Strip . In a conversation with Yinon Magal and Barak Seri on 103FM , Zvi Yehezkeli , the head of the Arab Desk at Channel 13 , commented on the mindset of Hamas since the outbreak of the conflict . What were they thinking when they committed the horrific massacre on October 7 ?" Killing Jews is Yahya Sinwar ' s strongest instinct . We are currently in the midst of a military operation , with the army actively engaged , showcasing an incredible fighting spirit ." Now , let ' s discuss the future . As long as there is a political entity in the Gaza Strip , you will always have Hamas . You cannot eradicate Hamas ; it ' s deeply engrained in the Palestinian identity , more so than Fatah or anything else . If the situation in the north Gaza Strip were to replicate itself in the south Gaza Strip & ndash ; with refugees seeking protection elsewhere and finding host countries & ndash ; leaving the Gaza Strip without Hamas and a large population will be impossible ." It ' s either Hamas or the people . Eventually , whoever governs the Gaza Strip will never accept your existence . No Palestinians , in any form , neither the Palestinian Authority nor a reformed Authority , will acknowledge your presence ." What do you propose for the day after ?" What has happened in Gaza can also happen in the West Bank . We have a zero - sum game with the Palestinians , and if we fail to realize this , it will consume us . Even in Judea and Samaria , my friends , it ' s just a matter of time ." Just ask the residents of settlements ; they know this is coming their way . Palestinians passing by the fence warn us , ' We will do to you what they did to you in Gaza .' I receive calls from Haredi individuals living in Beitar Illit , telling me , ' The Arabs are coming , and Gaza is a precursor .'" Understand that something has fundamentally changed regarding Palestinian existence . They have achieved what Nasrallah did in 2000 ; they managed to enter , kill , and massacre , and we did nothing ." Does witnessing the ongoing events in Gaza not make them think twice ?" Their concern is not for the residents . Yahya Sinwar doesn ' t care that two million people have become refugees . It simply doesn ' t matter to him . He believes it is a noble cause , something greater than himself , and it would be a miscalculation if he doesn ' t pursue it ." Hence , even if you push it towards the West Bank , even if it ' s true that Abu Mazen doesn ' t incite them for jihad , the public will . Is Jenin no longer like Gaza ? Is Nablus no longer like Gaza ? These are small places that have embraced jihad . Jihad holds greater significance for them than anything else , even if it brings them down and backfires ." Yehezkeli also said , " Gaza , before the massacre , was in a state of development . They built infrastructure and thriving buildings . Yet , they are willing to destroy all of it , reducing it to rubble , just to fight you . They know that eventually , you will feel remorse over their situation and leave ." There ' s an Arabic saying , ' If you want your stocks to rise , deal with a Jew . They will always take care of you .' The mercy of the Jews is something Arabs praise & ndash ; their compassion . They know we won ' t turn the tables ; they know we are merciful . A soldier said to me , ' Jews kill to survive , while Arabs live to kill .' That ' s the difference ."" Every day the token falls to us , we are in the Middle East . This war is not a month or two , I think something strategic has happened here , the State of Israel is about to go through a huge process for the next few years . You will not stop seeing soldiers here in reserves and with weapons ." This will not end friends , it will not end in Gaza , it will continue to Judea and Samaria . We have many more arenas . What , do you think that Nasrallah has finished his story ?" he asked . Part of the arguments for not launching a preemptive strike and a second front against Nasrallah and Hezbollah was that " we will dismantle Hamas " so that those in the north will see what we are doing and not want to enter . Are you saying it makes no impression on them ?" If you end Gaza in a ' wow ' way , everyone will step back and say , ' Listen , the Jews did something that is beyond their nature , and that ' s it .'" What is beyond nature ?" What is beyond nature ? That no Palestinian refugees remain in the Gaza Strip ." What ? Where will the two million go ?" 200 , 000 to 10 countries , what ' s the problem ? Germany took in four million Syrian refugees , Europe took in another two million , Lebanon took in two million from Assad , Jordan took in Egypt . Those who protect the Palestinians all the time , what ' s the problem if they take some Palestinians ? What ' s the problem ? Why can ' t they ?" You will not be able to establish your control and for the State of Israel to be safe , as long as you have an entity there that will always threaten you . Or you will once again build shields and protected rooms , etc ." How is Dahlan ? Is he planning to return to Gaza ?" I don ' t know . He ' s a star in Israel and among the Americans , but I think they don ' t understand either . Everyone who took care of the Gaza Strip in recent years must hold themselves accountable ." Assisted in the preparation of the article : Amitai Doak , 103fm