Chronic underfunding of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency which services 5 . 6 million Palestinian refugees will lead to its collapse , warned UNRWA Commissioner - General Philippe Lazzarini .& ldquo ; We are in an early waning mode right now . We have to avoid a situation where UNRWA crosses the tipping point ,& rdquo ; he told reporters in New York on Friday , adding that & ldquo ; we have entered a danger zone .& rdquo ; Lazzarini spoke one day after the UN held a pledging conference for UNRWA , which services Palestinian refugees in Syria , Lebanon , Jordan , Gaza , the West Bank and east Jerusalem . Donor countries committed to $ 160 million , which allows the agency to operate for the next few months , he explained ." To illustrate austerity , think of 50 children in one classroom , double shifts within schools , or a medical visit where a doctor spends less than 3 minutes with a patient ."& nbsp ; Philippe Lazzarini & ldquo ; We can run our operations until September ,& rdquo ; Lazzarini said , adding that after that , & ldquo ; I do not know if we will get the necessary cash to allow us to pay the salaries .& rdquo ; Part of the problem is that & ldquo ; UNRWA is expected to provide government - like services but is funded as if it was an NGO ,& rdquo ; he said . The UN is set to renew its mandate this fall , as it does every three years . It & rsquo ; s not enough for UN member states to vote to allow UNRWA to continue to operate , Lazzarini told the donor conference on Thursday . They must also provide the necessary funds for the agency to execute its mandate . Eventually , failure to do so would & ldquo ; push the agency towards financial collapse ,& rdquo ; he said , adding that he feared that day was fast approaching .& ldquo ; For years , we managed the chronic underfunding through internal measures such as cost control , austerity and zero - growth budgets ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; Today , we have depleted our financial reserves and reached the limits of cost control and austerity measures ,& rdquo ; he explained , adding that , & ldquo ; austerity now affects the quality of the services .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; We are not in a position anymore to adopt austerity and cost control measures of the size of the funding gap ,& rdquo ; he said . A FUNDING failure now would put at risk the education of half a million girls and boys as well as the primary health care for close to two million people , the commissioner explained .& ldquo ; To illustrate austerity , think of 50 children in one classroom , double shifts within schools , or a medical visit where a doctor spends less than three minutes with a patient .& rdquo ; The pace of donations , he said , cannot keep up with the needs of a growing population . At issue , in particular , is funding for UNRWA & rsquo ; s $ 817 million core needs , out of its $ 1 . 6 billion budget , which includes education and health care . As of mid - June , donor countries had sent the agency only $ 313 million toward that core budget .& ldquo ; We need US $ 817 million & ndash ; the full US $ 817 million ,& rdquo ; Lazzarini said . Not a new problem & nbsp ; UNRWA has long been in financial distress , but the situation has become more acute in light of the COVID - 19 pandemic and the Russian - Ukrainian war .& ldquo ; The situation in Ukraine has exacerbated the noticeable increase in food and commodity prices , seriously affecting the household economy of Palestine refugees ,& rdquo ; Lazzarini said . Poverty rates have reached 80 % in Lebanon , Syria and Gaza , where & ldquo ; too many Palestine refugees report living with one meal a day ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; I have appealed to all donors to ensure that Palestine refugees are not a collateral of the events in Ukraine .& rdquo ; DEPUTY US Ambassador to the UN Nicholas Hill told the donor conference that the Biden administration was strongly committed to UNRWA . America & ldquo ; is proud to be the agency & rsquo ; s largest single donor . We contributed $ 338 million to UNRWA & rsquo ; s work in 2021 and have already announced $ 79 million for 2022 ,& rdquo ; Hill said , adding that & ldquo ; we intend to provide additional support to UNRWA this year .& rdquo ; The former Trump administration had cut all US funding to UNRWA , explaining that the organization was in need of financial reform and that Palestinians could be better serviced in other ways . It had echoed concerns voiced by Israel that the agency allowed for an ever - expanding class of refugees , by providing assistance to descendants of the 750 , 000 Palestinians that were displaced during the 1948 War of Independence . Israel and opponents of UNRWA have also charged that there are instances of antisemitism and anti - Israel incitement in textbooks used by the agency in its classroom . On Thursday , just prior to the pledging conference , the Geneva - based NGO UN Watch released a report charging that some UNRWA teachers and staff had engaged in incitement against Jews and Israel on their social media accounts . Israel & rsquo ; s Ambassador to the UN Gilad Erdan wrote a letter to Lazzarini on Thursday , asking that he dismiss all employees who encourage terrorism and antisemitism . The commissioner - general told reporters in New York on Friday that UNRWA & ldquo ; has zero tolerance when it comes to incitement to violence and discrimination .& ldquo ; Whenever we are confronted with a situation where indeed there is a breach of UN values , the agency will take all the necessary measures ,& rdquo ; he stressed . & ldquo ; If misconduct is identified we will take measures in line with UN policies .& rdquo ; He speculated that it was not a coincidence that the report , which includes some of those charges , was released on the day of the pledging conference , noting that there were those who wanted to delegitimize the agency .& ldquo ; There has been an increase in activities by a number of detractors to try to delegitimize the agency and not to acknowledge all the efforts put by the agency to deal with this situation ,& rdquo ; Lazzarini said .