Elitzur Ramle captured the Israel women & rsquo ; s basketball championship after defeating Harold Lev Jerusalem 84 - 60 , winning its third title in a row with a clean 3 - 0 sweep in the finals .& nbsp ; Host Ramle came into Game 3 after just clipping the Reds 95 - 94 in Game 2 , and it was clear from the get - go that the yellow - and - black had no interest in making a return trip to the capital for a fourth game .& nbsp ; Jessica Jackson , Jennie Simms , Tzlil Vaturi , and Eden Rotberg came out flying for Danny Gutt & rsquo ; s squad as the hosts took an insurmountable 44 - 23 halftime lead and never looked back to run away with the win .& nbsp ; Rotberg scored 19 points , Jackson added 17 points , and Simms checked in with a triple - double of 12 points , 11 rebounds , and 10 assists In the win . Breanna Richardson scored 20 points , while Stashi Carey chipped in with 18 points for Jerusalem in the loss .& nbsp ; Gutt , who was soaked from head to toe following the game , spoke about the victory .& ldquo ; I have been a part of many titles & ndash ; whether it was with David Blatt , Maccabi Tel Aviv , 3x3 Championships , and others & ndash ; but this was the sweetest of them all because this was one was as a head coach and one that was for an entire season . We had a bit of a slump when we lost the cup , but we got over that , and we came into the semifinals and finals with all of our strengths . We deserved it as we were the No . 1 team throughout the entire season , and we had to prove that in these six playoff games , and that & rsquo ; s what we did .& rdquo ; The keys to the winAs for the keys to the win , Gutt repeated one word : & ldquo ; Defense , defense , defense , and defense . We knew that in order to beat Jerusalem , we had to keep their point total down , and if we wanted to win a title , it had to be via our defense . I & rsquo ; m happy that the team put in an incredible performance . Our squad left their heart on the court , and winning the championship was the result .& rdquo ; Jerusalem bench boss Limor Peleg , who picked up the coach of the season award , spoke about the game and about wrapping up a successful campaign for the first - year premier league squad .& ldquo ; Not the way we wanted to end the season , but we gave it all we had . I don & rsquo ; t know what happened in this game and we all had a very long week , all of Israel did . I don & rsquo ; t know if we were tired if it was just going down 0 - 2 & ndash ; I have no answers . Putting this game aside , I am really proud of the team . They went above all expectations of themselves , the club , and the team . We won the State Cup , took second place , and made it to the finals , so I & rsquo ; m really proud of everything they did this year .& rdquo ; Rotberg , who was named MVP , was at a loss for words as to how excited she was to win the championship .& ldquo ; I & rsquo ; m super happy ; this was amazing . From the first moment , we came in to win , and we deserved it . This was a crazy series , and we expected that . I & rsquo ; m so proud of everyone . The cup loss seemed to wake everyone up , and it & rsquo ; s too bad that we lost that game , but that & rsquo ; s sports , and we were able to overcome that to win this title . We worked super hard this season , but I have to remind everyone that there are hostages being held in Gaza and that we are still at war . So I & rsquo ; m happy that we were able to give people the chance to smile and enjoy some sports during this tough time .& rdquo ;