Friday , May 14 , 1948 . The final hours of the British Mandate in Palestine ticked away . The mandate was set to expire at midnight . David Ben - Gurion gave orders for the ceremony to mark the birth of the Jewish state . He decided to make the historic declaration just before Shabbat came in . In the fevered atmosphere of the time , Ben - Gurion ’ s overriding concern was security . If the location of the ceremony became public knowledge , a single terrorist bomb could wipe out the entire embryonic government of the new state , together with most of its notables . So it was not until the middle of that Friday morning that officials began telephoning the 200 people who had been selected to attend the ceremony . Only then were they told that it was to take place in Tel Aviv ’ s Municipal Museum on Rothschild Boulevard , at exactly 4 p . m . Another 50 or so people also received a call that morning , instructing them to be present – the members of what was then known as the Palestine Philharmonic Orchestra , comprised of Jewish musicians – for by 1948 the national orchestra had become so identified with the Jewish people that an occasion of such historic significance was unthinkable without their presence . ON MAY 15 , 1948 , the orchestra became the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra ( IPO ), and its relationship with the people of Israel has a deserved place in the reflections about nationhood , identity , and independence that mark Independence Day . As the National Council and the guests made their way to the ground floor area , the orchestra assembled in the museum ’ s upper gallery . At exactly 4 p . m ., Ben - Gurion rapped his gavel . This was the prearranged signal for the orchestra to strike up “ Hatikvah .” Unfortunately , someone missed the cue , and from above came only silence . Never one to lack initiative , Ben - Gurion promptly launched his uncertain voice into the anthem ; rather raggedly , the other members of the People ’ s Council joined in . But someone in the hall did respond to that gavel – a young radio engineer , Ralf Hellinger , who had been running the underground radio station of the Hagana , the clandestine Jewish self - defense force . Tipped off by American journalists about what was to take place , Hellinger had arrived at the Tel Aviv museum that afternoon carting two of his cumbersome 78 rpm recording machines . After proclaiming the new State , Ben - Gurion invited the members of the People ’ s Council , one by one , to sign the document . As the last one put his name on the scroll , to thunderous applause , the orchestra finally made its presence known , and brought the proceedings to a close with “ Hatikvah .” The audio recordings of the events of that historic Friday afternoon have been preserved in the archives of the Israel Public Broadcasting Corporation , which today operates under the brand name Kan . When the musicians assembled at the Municipal Museum that Friday afternoon , they did so as the Palestine Philharmonic Orchestra . By the time they played “ Hatikvah ” they had become the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra ( IPO ). Give or take a few months , the orchestra itself was 12 years old by that time . How had it come into existence ? IN THE early 1930s , Germany ’ s increasingly harsh race laws roused the eminent violinist , Bronislaw Huberman , to a fury . In articles and letters to the newspapers , he berated German intellectuals for failing to make a stand for freedom of cultural expression ; and tried to mobilize world opinion against the Nazis ’ persecution of Jewish writers , artists , and musicians . Finally , Huberman decided to do something practical to help those of his own profession who were being denied the right to perform inside the Third Reich . He began to persuade first - rank Jewish musicians to emigrate to the Land of Israel , known then as Palestine . Against all the odds , he succeeded in setting up a viable orchestra , largely comprised of immigrant musicians . Even more remarkably , Huberman was able to persuade Arturo Toscanini , possibly the most eminent conductor in the world at that time , to conduct the opening concert of the orchestra .“ I am doing this for humanity ,” the maestro declared . The Unfinished by Franz Schubert ( 1797 - 1828 ) was one of the two major works included in that first public performance by the orchestra on December 26 , 1936 . Present were the British high commissioner Lord Peel , Vera and Chaim Weizmann , Paula and David Ben - Gurion , and a vast audience , which included Signora Toscanini . The first years were not easy . Not only had the 75 players brought a wide diversity of styles with them , but the diversity of languages added further difficulties . Despite the problems , they quickly coalesced into an orchestra that renowned conductors were happy to lead , among others Bernardino Molinari ( 1880 - 1952 ), William Steinberg ( 1889 - 1978 ), and even Britain ’ s distinguished Malcolm Sargent ( 1895 - 1967 ). The version of “ Hatikvah ” currently used by the orchestra is based on the orchestration by Sargent in those early days . While recognized remarkably early as a first - class orchestra , the Israel Philharmonic is today world - class . This transformation was due to two towering figures in its history – famed conductors Leonard Bernstein and Zubin Mehta . The first a Jew , the latter a gentile , these two men share equal credit for forging the unique symbiosis between the orchestra and the people of Israel that is the outstanding characteristic of the IPO . No other top - flight orchestra in the world is so closely identified with its constituency as the Israel Philharmonic . City orchestras in the United States , the United Kingdom , Europe ; national orchestras in the Netherlands , Switzerland , and elsewhere , none are woven , as the IPO is , into the very fabric of their audience ’ s lives . Where the Israeli people have gone , there has been the orchestra , giving musical expression to the great events in the nation ’ s story . BERNSTEIN ARRIVED in Israel in October 1948 to open the first orchestral season in the State of Israel . The season included six special concerts for service men and women – the most spectacular in the town of Beersheba just captured from Egyptian troops . Braving bad roads , sand and dust , the orchestra traveled from Tel Aviv with their own piano and played their concert on a makeshift stage before a thousand - strong audience of troops . That November , Bernstein broadcast from Israel to the United States .“ Last week ,” he said , “ we gave a concert in Jerusalem for soldiers only . Imagine 2 , 000 soldiers simultaneously given leave one morning in a city under siege ! “ Imagine them crowding into the Edison Theatre , filling every nook , suspended literally from the roof , curled up on window sashes , packed into the aisles and staircases – all to hear a Brahms symphony . “ And at the end , the shouting and screaming was an almost unbearable tribute . Yes , the orchestra is the lifeblood of Israeli culture , and I am dedicated to the task of seeing it flourish .” That was a commitment Bernstein honored to the full , in the years that followed . An unforgettable concert during the Six Day WarTOWARD THE end of May 1967 , with Israel ’ s Arab neighbors mobilizing on her borders , the distinguished foreign conductor , who had been engaged for the summer concert series , took fright and hurriedly departed . In the middle of the six days of fighting that began on June 5 , Mehta arrived from Europe in a plane otherwise filled with ammunition , joining Daniel Barenboim and Jacqueline du Pré who were already performing with the orchestra . Close on their heels came Sir John Barbirolli and Bernstein . In July , with Jerusalem once again united , an unforgettable concert was staged in the amphitheater on Mount Scopus . In the warm summer afternoon , before a packed audience that included then - prime minister Levi Eshkol and former prime minister Ben - Gurion , Bernstein conducted a performance of Mahler ’ s Resurrection symphony that lives in the memory of those present as an almost unbearably moving experience . By this time , Mehta ’ s connection with the IPO was strong , forged in his first season with the orchestra in 1961 .“ When I came on to the stage for the second rehearsal ,” he once recalled , “ the players applauded .” How a musician from India , coming to this group of Jewish musicians assembled from around the world , managed to ignite so extraordinary and lasting a chemistry is something of a mystery . Mehta himself sometimes ascribes it to the fact that he was a member of the Persian “ Parsi ” minority in his own country , although , he always adds : “ The Parsis have never experienced racism like the Jews .” In the heady days that followed the Six Day War – days that saw the marriage of Barenboim and du Pré in Jerusalem – Mehta alternated with Bernstein in conducting the IPO in a series of victory concerts . The opening of the 1968 - 69 season coincided with the announcement of Mehta ’ s appointment as musical director of the IPO , an appointment extended for life in 1981 .“ I will stay for as long as the players want me ,” declared maestro Mehta , in accepting the honor . It was under his directorship that the IPO achieved acknowledged world - class status . He melded the rich string sound that comes so naturally to European musicians with the special qualities of brass and woodwind that flourish in the United States . Mehta provided the inspired leadership that united a body of musicians into a musical instrument that is greater than its parts . Above all , he cherished and fostered the unique relationship that has existed from the first between the orchestra and the people of Israel . Under the Indian Mehta ’ s baton , the IPO was transformed into the musical expression of the Israeli nation ’ s very identity . 