United Nations envoy Nickolay Mladenov , a diplomatic pillar on which the uneasy calm that has characterized the Israeli - Palestinian conflict over the last six years has rested , quietly left for his home country of Bulgaria at the end of last month .

The impact of his departure on the conflict has not garnered as much attention as that of the tumultuous regime change in Washington and the electoral chaos in Israel . His absence , however , leaves a chasm in day - to - day , back - channel regional statesmanship precisely at a time of diplomatic upheaval .

A former Bulgarian foreign minister , he arrived in Jerusalem from a UN posting in Iraq in 2015 at an inauspicious moment in the conflict . He took over what , during the time of his predecessor , Robert Serry , had been the highly contentious post of UN special coordinator for the Middle East peace process .

For almost six years Mladenov was a peace envoy without a peace process . From the moment of his arrival and until his departure , there were no direct Israeli - Palestinian negotiations . Until the final months of his posting , a larger Israeli - Arab peace process , which has now filled Israel with hope , was absent and largely considered unthinkable .

During his first two years , the Obama administration had largely given up on Israeli - Palestinian peace and for the next three , the process remained frozen as both parties awaited a plan from US President Donald Trump .

In an interview with The Jerusalem Post in 2016 , Mladenov spoke of the limits of his position in light of the current reality , noting that one would have to be & ldquo ; day dreaming & rdquo ; to imagine that Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu were about to sit down to negotiate .

& ldquo ; We don & rsquo ; t believe that , currently , the way things stand , negotiations are possible ,& rdquo ; he said .

In the interim , he explained , & ldquo ; our role is to actually figure out how we can create the condition under which such a process can resume in a meaningful manner .& rdquo ;

Then he went about showing just how meaningful small , behind - the - scenes steps could actually be . He threw out the script of how his office had operated and created a new process that met the reality he saw out his window .

The Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University dubbed his form of diplomacy the & ldquo ; Mladenov approach .& rdquo ;

Nowhere was that felt more than in Israel & rsquo ; s conflict with Hamas in Gaza , which had thrice broken out into war & ndash ; in the winter of 2008 - 2009 , in 2012 and in the summer of 2014 .

During his six years in office , Gaza crises erupted , rockets flew and the IDF struck Hamas targets . But each time , just as Israel was on the brink of war , effective behind - the - scenes diplomacy by his office restored an uneasy calm .

This included the eventual neutralization of the Hamas - led Great March of Return , which began in 2018 and sparked weekly and at times daily violent riots on Israel & rsquo ; s border and included the launching of incendiary balloons against southern Israel .

Part of his success was due to the fact that he was not a stranger to the Middle East and that he came from a small neutral country . He had already visited the region as a foreign minister and had ties with Israelis , Palestinians and Arab countries , including the Gulf states . He did not lose those connections , and some of them were enhanced during his time in Iraq .

MLADENOV HAD an easy manner about him that made people feel as though he were their friend , even when he was critical and holding them to task .

Former US ambassador Dan Shapiro said , & ldquo ; He did something that others who have held that position have found difficult to do , which is to win the confidence and trust of all the relevant players .& rdquo ; This included , Shapiro said , & ldquo ; the Israeli government and the Palestinian Authority , the Arab states , the American and European leaders and Hamas .& rdquo ;

Shapiro added that & ldquo ; because he had that trust and was seen as a straight shooter ,& rdquo ; he could & ldquo ; call any party out for an action that needed to be addressed or changed .& rdquo ;

In addition , Mladenov was & ldquo ; very creative and quite determined . He was far more effective than many who have held that position ,& rdquo ; said Shapiro .

Mladenov not only created a mechanism of communication for defusing crisis situations with Gaza , but he augmented that with linking Gaza calm with increased humanitarian aid , in a way that offered positive incentive that gave Hamas a reason to hold its fire .

From the start he breathed new life into the Gaza Reconstruction Mechanism , by which construction material was allowed into the Strip to enable Palestinians to rebuild homes destroyed during the 2014 war . He helped move forward projects on water and wastewater and electricity , including increased funding . In 2018 , he expanded those efforts , bringing in extra aid , including cash for needy families , from Qatar .

Mladenov was vocal about his ideas , speaking often to the Israeli public at conferences and events , including those organized by civic society groups , by way of strengthening on the ground efforts toward peace . He wrote tweets and blog posts and gave monthly briefings to the UN Security Council . At a time when few were saying anything , he was always saying something .

Mladenov sided with the Palestinians on the idea of a two - state solution at the pre - 1967 lines , as he warned against a one - state reality to the conflict . He was a persistent opponent of settlement activity , which he saw as a stumbling block to the conflict .

But he also supported Israel in its criticism of Hamas and the PA support of terrorism and incitement , putting that critique in writing in the 2016 Quartet blueprint to resolve the Israeli - Palestinian conflict , which he helped author .

During his six years , Mladenov was often the first UN official to condemn terrorist attacks or to chastise the Palestinians . He also called repeatedly for Fatah - Hamas unity and urged the PA to maintain its security cooperation with Israel and to accept the tax levies Israel had collected for it . At times he was accused by Palestinians of what they perceived to be a stance that was too pro - Israel .

Mladenov had not initially believed that Israeli - Arab peace was possible prior to resolution of the Israeli - Palestinian conflict . His opinions were diametrically opposite to those of the Trump administration . Still , he has been credited with helping the US see how the threat of Israeli West Bank annexation could create a window of opportunity for Israeli - Arab normalization . Under the rubric of the Abraham Accords the Trump administration launched in August , Israel opened ties with the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Morocco and Sudan . & nbsp ;

The success of those initiatives was helped , in part , by the calm that existed in Gaza , which Mladenov had helped maintain . Had there been a war in the previous two years , the option for normalization deals might not have existed .

Shapiro said that Mladenov & ldquo ; didn & rsquo ; t resolve the conflict , obviously , but helped contain it , ameliorate it [ and ] helped resolve and prevent crises when they popped up .& rdquo ;

German Ambassador Susanne Wasum - Rainer said , & ldquo ; He was tireless in his efforts to make small steps that could eventually lead to bigger progress . He never allowed himself to get frustrated at any obstacles , and remained always convinced that the painful reality of the conflict for the people living here gave the UN and the international community an obligation to stay engaged .& rdquo ;

She added , & ldquo ; Even during all these years without negotiations between the two sides , he succeeded to uphold the international consensus on the need for a two - states solution .& rdquo ;

IN SUMMING UP his own time in Israel in a blog post he wrote before he left , Mladenov said , & ldquo ; I have worked on upholding the international consensus that the goal is of a two - state solution , I have warned of the dangers of the eroding status quo , supported intra - Palestinian reconciliation efforts , and , most of all , focused on preventive diplomacy .

& ldquo ; Together with Egypt , and with critical support from Qatar and others in the international community , the United Nations has played a pivotal role in preventing another devastating war in Gaza . I have spoken out against injustices . I have condemned terror ,& rdquo ; he wrote .

He added that it was a mistake to view the conflict from the narrow lens of territory .

& ldquo ; This conflict is not just a conflict over land , for both peoples have the right to call Israel and Palestine their home . It is not only a conflict over history & ndash ; personal and collective . It is a conflict over the very right of two nations to coexist ,& rdquo ; he wrote .

& ldquo ; Perhaps today is not the time for big international initiatives , but the time for steps & ndash ; maybe small , sometimes maybe bold & ndash ; that protect that goal of two - states ,& rdquo ; Mladenov wrote .

He urged Israelis and Palestinians to seize common threats such as the COVID - 19 pandemic and opportunities such as those provided by the Abraham Accords to find a way to return to the negotiating table .

Seen as a rising star at the UN and as a possible UN secretary - general , he had planned to leave for a UN post in Libya . But at the last moment he bowed out for family and personal reasons , and will be replaced by veteran diplomat from Noway Tor Wennesland .

He was so vocal and so omnipresent , speaking at small NGO events and shaking hands with heads of state throughout the region , that it almost seemed as though he had become a permanent fixture to the conflict .

The small achievements on the Israeli - Palestinian track over the last six years have depended on a large cadre of diplomats , but Mladenov is credited as the behind - the - scenes official who maximized those efforts to keep the wheels of a two - state solution slowly churning .

He was a vocal envoy of peace on behalf of both Palestinians and Israelis , who has left the stage at a time when his calming influence would have been essential to maintaining horizons of possibilities for Israeli - Arab and Israeli - Palestinian peace .