The State Comptroller & rsquo ; s Office instructed , in a letter sent Tuesday , that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu & rsquo ; s chief of staff send over transcripts of meetings as part of a review of the cabinet & rsquo ; s functioning in the years leading up to the Israel - Hamas war after the Prime Minister & rsquo ; s Office ( PMO ) refused the comptroller & rsquo ; s first request to send them . The PMO said that the High Court & rsquo ; s decision to stop the comptroller & rsquo ; s review of the IDF and Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) meant they could not send the materials , which include meetings with security officials , according to the comptroller & rsquo ; s office . The High Court of Justice on Sunday froze the state comptroller & rsquo ; s probe of the IDF & rsquo ; s October 7 failures until a hearing on the dispute will be held in July , and possibly for much longer . In addition to the letter , the comptroller sent a request Tuesday to the High Court to hold an urgent hearing about the decision and on the PMO & rsquo ; s refusal to send the documents following the decision . The PMO responded to the letter saying , & ldquo ; contrary to what has been claimed , we are planning to give all the material to the comptroller . In light of the contradictions between the instructions of the high court to not give materials and the request of the comptroller , we have asked for a legal opinion on the matter .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; IDF Chief of Staff Lt .- Gen . Herzi Halevi has repeatedly noted that the IDF was undertaking its own probe and that the IDF has been supportive of a post - war state commission of inquiry , but that distracting the IDF mid - war with handling comptroller inquiries would be dangerous . Comptroller ' s office indicates that turning over documents will not cause security concerns & nbsp ; While documents include transcripts of meetings with security officials , the comptroller & rsquo ; s office said that this does not mean that the probe of the PMO is frozen and does not justify the failure to provide the documents at the comptroller & rsquo ; s request . The comptroller also said that turning over these documents will not impact the attention of security officials and so will not cause security concerns . The high court decision & ldquo ; does not refer to the PMO ,& rdquo ; said the comptroller & rsquo ; s letter . & ldquo ; The request of documents from the PMO was done within the framework of a review our office is doing of the function of the political echelon before the war , and so there is no reason to connect this request to the aforementioned [ court ] decision .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; The fact that the meetings [ in the requested transcripts ] were between the prime minister and IDF and Shin Bet officials , does not mean that these documents are within the purview of the High Court & rsquo ; s decision .& rdquo ; Its decision & ldquo ; was not intended to lead to a cessation of all reviews by the comptroller & rsquo ; s office of all bodies who have an affinity to the Swords of Iron War ,& rdquo ; said the office , adding that the review of other offices who have a connection to the war is ongoing . The comptroller & rsquo ; s letter also said that the PMO has been refusing to provide documents pertaining to the period before October 2021 requested by them for the past few months . Yonah Jeremy Bob contributed to this report .