& ldquo ; Nineteen arrested in large brawl at Soroka hospital in Beersheba ,& rdquo ; a headline read in November . A fight broke out between two Bedouin families from Rahat , about 20 km . north of Beersheba . The reason it made the news was the location & ndash ; brawls happen all the time .
There are thousands of Bedouin living in the Negev ; their story must extend deeper than crime - ridden headlines . So , who are the Bedouin of the South ?
The clash took place in one of the parking lots at Soroka - University Medical Center in Beersheba , with two people being injured . By the end of a long night , which included gunshots and stone - throwing , 19 people were arrested .
Beersheba Deputy Mayor Shimon Tuval said at the time that the situation was madness . & ldquo ; Not only did we lose Beersheba , we lost the whole country . Shots in a hospital are a redline that cannot be crossed .& rdquo ;
Hospitals are not a place for incidents like these and are not equipped to deal with them , Dr . Shlomi Kodesh , director of Soroka , said at the time .

The Beersheba Municipality did not respond to a request for comment for this article .
Soroka
When the incident in Soroka occurred , it was in the context of a string of attacks happening inside or near hospital spaces , which are supposed to be safe and immune .
Dr . Zeev Feldman , chairman of the Association of Public Health Doctors in Israel and acting chairman of the Israeli Medical Association , explained to The Jerusalem Post at the time that hospitals are merely a microcosm of society .
& lsquo ; Lawlessness & rsquo ; in the Negev
The lack of governance in the Negev is an ongoing issue , and Prime Minister Naftali Bennett said at the time : & ldquo ; We are dealing in an orderly manner with problems that we have already become accustomed to having nothing to do with , that are chronic problems that are used to being pushed off .& rdquo ;
& ldquo ; If the State of Israel does not protect the land on which it stands , it will cease to exist ,& rdquo ; Naomi Linder Kahn , director of the International Division at Regavim , told the Magazine .
Regavim is an NGO that describes itself as & ldquo ; committed to protecting Israel & rsquo ; s land resources .& rdquo ;
Land , Kahn explained , is the most basic resource of a state . And the organization , in the 16 years since its founding , has found that Israel fails to protect it in the Negev .
According to Regavim , lawlessness leads to abuse in land use , which is significant because the Negev comprises more than 60 % of the landmass of Israel . & ldquo ; The land is being chewed up at an incredibly alarming rate by illegal Bedouin construction ,& rdquo ; Kahn said .
Regavim warned that & ldquo ; if we continue on the trajectory we are on right now , we will lose the Negev .& rdquo ;
A story within a story
& ldquo ; There & rsquo ; s an entire culture here : Towns , settlements , MKs and even the police play a small part in this story ,& rdquo ; Israel Police said . & ldquo ; Police [ play the part of dealing with the ] criminal stories , but the story here in the Negev is about cultures . Everyone who lives in the South engages with this dialogue every day .
& ldquo ; To understand what the Bedouin do , you need to understand their culture . Police are a tiny part in this giant story of Bedouin settlement in the Negev ; talking about [ how the ] police [ should intervene ] gives good headlines , but it is not the story .& rdquo ;
In November , the Knesset & rsquo ; s Research and Information Center published a staggering report showing that the highest crime rates in the country are in the South .
& ldquo ; Our worst fear is that the State of Israel created a state within a state . They don & rsquo ; t pay taxes , they don & rsquo ; t have proper addresses ; people are living off the grid and are not accountable under the law ,& rdquo ; said Kahn .
On a tour in the area in December , Bennett proclaimed : & ldquo ; The law of Beersheba and Rahat is like the law of Tel Aviv . We will continue to act until we restore the sense of security to the residents of the South .& rdquo ;& nbsp ;
The Bedouin community is on the lowest socioeconomic rung in Israel , Kahn said , with there being gaps in education and in infrastructure . & ldquo ; These are things they have a legal right to as citizens of Israel , but the money that the government invests in the Bedouin sector is getting lost along the way .& rdquo ;
When Bennett went south , he met with Beersheba Mayor Ruvik Danilovich , who delivered a clear message : Stronger governance is needed in the Negev to begin to regulate Bedouin settlements . Danilovich was one of the only town leaders Bennett met with on his tour , catching flak for only going to an observation point that overlooks Rahat and not entering the city itself .
Faiz Abu Sahiban , mayor of the largest Bedouin city and the second - largest Arab city in Israel , called the trip an insult . & ldquo ; Rahat is a city well inside the borders of Israel , not outside of it . The itinerary of the tour is problematic and disgusting in how it treats a city that is in the heart of the state as a threat .& rdquo ;
What would happen if the state intervenes ?
& ldquo ;[ We would have ] a completely protected minority that can live fully under the law and protect their own culture ,& rdquo ; Regavim said .
In Regavim & rsquo ; s eyes , there are two steps that are necessary to take to ensure stability in the region : Putting people on the map & ndash ; making sure that everyone is registered to a real address , for accountability and tracking & ndash ; and resolving land ownership disputes .
In October , Bennett & rsquo ; s government was threatened over a bill introduced by Ra & rsquo ; am ( United Arab List ), later passing in the plenum as the electricity law . The law allows thousands of illegally built homes to be hooked up to the national electricity grid .
& ldquo ; The government woke up and realized that 300 , 000 Bedouin are living here [ without proper infrastructure ] and that this is a ticking time bomb . So , the government started to change its tune ,& rdquo ; the police said .
Beersheba is the fastest growing city in Israel , but it can & rsquo ; t grow because of the illegal encampments surrounding it . If that is the case , & ldquo ; we & rsquo ; re finished ,& rdquo ; Regavim & rsquo ; s Kahn said .
According to the Israel Police , a solution could be found by taking the right approach in the dispute between the two cultures & ndash ; Western - Israeli and Bedouin .
& ldquo ; Anyone who tries to understand the Bedouin culture with Western eyes will fail ,& rdquo ; it said .■