Israel needs a peace authority to pursue and maintain relations with its Arab neighbors and the Palestinians , former Israeli negotiator Gilead Sher told the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee on Tuesday .
& ldquo ; This authority will handle only peace , and peace - making and peace - preserving ,& rdquo ; Sher told The Jerusalem Post after the meeting , adding that this new body would have & ldquo ; one mission statement .& rdquo ;
This would be an independent authority with a commissioner that would be appointed by the Knesset , Sher said .
He explained that this was different from other governmental bodies such as the Foreign Ministry , the Prime Minister & rsquo ; s Office or the National Security Council , which handles a myriad of tasks .
& ldquo ; This is a fresh new idea that is completely detached from politics of Left and Right ,& rdquo ; said Sher . & ldquo ; This relates to the very basic fundamentals of the establishment of the State of Israel with a Declaration of Independence of 1948 , which expressly says that Israel will seek peace and extend its arms toward its neighbors for peace and security .& rdquo ;

Sher has a long history with peace processes , having served as an attorney and chief of staff for former prime minister Ehud Barak , as well as a negotiator for both Barak and former prime minister Yitzhak Rabin .
Israel needs to move beyond the paradigm of dealing with peace only as a necessary pursuit when the opportunity opens and make it a permanent part of its national agenda , Sher said .
Israel should & ldquo ; not be satisfied with short - time , ad - hoc administrations whenever there is an opportunity to do something ,& rdquo ; he said .
During past peace processes , he noted , there were temporary mechanisms that were established and then dismantled . During the 2007 Annapolis process , there was even & ldquo ; a peace administration ,& rdquo ; but & ldquo ; it was a very short - term administration without any continuity of the collective memory and the data that was processed .& rdquo ;
A Peace Authority , Sher said , would allow for a kind of continuity that is not absent .
& ldquo ; This is a stable permanent body that would become one of the most important bodies in the state of Israel ,& rdquo ; he said .
Sher spoke at a time when the peace process with the Palestinians has been frozen for almost eight years . It is also a time when Israel has advanced peace with its neighbors under the rubric of the Abraham Accords , establishing ties with the United Arab Emirates , Bahrain , Morocco and Sudan .
Sher said that the peace authority would work to shore up those relations as well as Israel & rsquo ; s peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan . In addition , it would prepare for normalized ties with additional Arab countries .
A senior fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies , Sher said this plan was his initiative , and that when he put it forward , he did not represent any specific organization .
He spoke during a meeting in which the FADC listened to proposals on how to advance Israeli - Palestinian relations and heard summaries of pending problem areas .
MK Gaby Lasky ( Meretz ) told the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee that she could not recall when such a forum had been convened . Lasky said the idea for an administration or a peace authority could be put into place fairly quickly . It has been a mistake to rely so heavily on a military body to represent Israel in its ties with the Palestinian Authority . It would be important for a civilian body to exist that would upgrade Israel & rsquo ; s ties with the PA , Lasky said .