Hostage family members took part in various Knesset committees ahead of the opening of the parliament ' s summer session on Monday under the banner " You returned from recess , the hostages haven ' t returned yet ," according to The Hostage and Missing Family Forum . Ella Ben Ami , daughter of hostage Ohad Ben Ami said in one of the committees , " My mother , who returned from captivity after 54 days , does not know herself whether she is a widow or not , and the biggest fear is that I will miss the opportunity to save my father and that my mother will have to live both the shocking experience of a former hostage and be a widow without a husband to help her and strengthen her ." I ask that in every sentence of your discussion today and when you go to sleep at night remember my mother ," she stated . Yarden Gonen , sister of hostage Romi Gonen , told the members of the committee , " I don ' t know what the solution is as was suggested here previously but I do know that you can ' t do the same thing over and over again and expect a different result because this is not what will happen ." Mor Korngold , brother of hostage Tal Shoham , also addressed a Knesset committee , asking " How can I raise my children here ? How can I say ' yes ' to reserve duty ? I went to the army and I know that no one is left behind ." But for eight months , everyone who sits here abandoned me , the hostages , and their families , and you sit here and speak of the most unimportant subjects " he further stated ." If something happens to the living hostages or to my brother , we will chase you ," Korngold added . Police clashes with demonstrators in JerusalemIn parallel , on Monday , demonstrators protested on Highway 1 leading to Jerusalem and in the capital , calling for elections to be held amid the opening of the Knesset & rsquo ; s summer session . Police said on Monday that during the protest , demonstrators blocked a road leading to the Knesset and sat on it . Forces subsequently removed them .& nbsp ; The police added that it had detained for questioning seven demonstrators on suspicion that they had attempted to block the highway with vehicles and wanted to ignite a fire in the area . The police further said that the suspects did not provide explanations as to why they had with them incendiary materials , wooden planks , tires etc . The police also affirmed that the seven suspects are expected to be brought to court hours after their arrest . A statement released by the Brothers and Sisters in Arms movement countered police arguments , noting & ldquo ; there was no intention to set fire to vehicles or block the road ,& rdquo ; but rather the & ldquo ; vehicles in the convoy had been burned in advance , without engines , as a symbol of the legacy of the government .& rdquo ; The statement further affirmed there had been no justifiable cause for the arrests .& nbsp ; The movement also asserted that the demonstrators had been at the side of the road and were not blocking traffic . Later on Monday evening , thousands protested outside the Knesset against the government and called for the return of the hostage , according to Israeli media reports .