The last week has been an anatomy of a spiraling brawl between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and US President Joe Biden . First , there was the & ldquo ; hot mic & rdquo ; moment last week in which Biden , in an incident that many thought was scripted , was heard telling politicians that he wanted to have a & ldquo ; come to Jesus meeting & rdquo ; with Netanyahu . That was followed by Biden & rsquo ; s attack on Netanyahu on Sunday , when during an interview with MSNBC he said the Israeli Prime Minister & ldquo ; is hurting Israel more than helping Israel ... it is contrary to what Israel stands for , and I think it & rsquo ; s a big mistake .& rdquo ; On Monday a US Intelligence Assessment report speculated that Netanyahu could be overthrown . In speaking about that report before a Senate committee CIA Director William Burns said , & ldquo ; I worry that Netanyahu & rsquo ; s conduct in the war threatens to undermine support for Israel in the long term including in the US .& rdquo ; A senior Israeli official responded by accusing the Biden admiration of attempting to overthrow Netanyahu & rsquo ; s government . On Thursday , in a prolonged speech before the Senate , its Majority Leader Chuck Schumer ( D - NY ) called for new elections to replace Netanyahu charging that he was an obstacle to peace and arguing that he and his & ldquo ; extremist government & rdquo ; cannot remain in place once the war winds down . He even appeared to hint at conditioning military aid , a sentiment once expressed only by politicians on the left - wing flank of the Democratic Party , such as Senator Bernie Sanders ( D - VT ). It was a speech that vastly expanded the narrative to one that extended beyond Netanyahu and Biden , to include the entire Democratic Party . That Schumer is the highest - ranking Jewish politician , a centrist within the party , and an avid Israel supporter , made the blow even harsher . Israeli outcry falls flatIsraeli politicians were quick to decry US interference in the democracy of one of its closest allies , a tried and true refrain used for such moments . It fell someone flat , however , in light of the impact Israel & rsquo ; s policies are having both on antisemitism in the US and the upcoming US Presidential elections . One could see Schumer & rsquo ; s speech within the context of US domestic politics , as a sign of how nervous the Democratic Party is about retaining the White House in November and the impact the Gaza war could have on Biden & rsquo ; s reelection chances versus his adversary , former US president Donald Trump . One could even see it as the start of the Democratic messaging , now that Trump and Biden this week have clinched enough support to become their party & rsquo ; s presumptive nominees . Opponents of the Gaza war in America often refer to it as & ldquo ; Netanyahu & rsquo ; s war ,& rdquo ; scapegoating him as the cause of the conflict rather than Hamas . Netanyahu , who was already at odds with Biden and the Democratic Party over his judicial policies before the war , had already been viewed as a person - non - grata in Washington . Now it appears that instead of turning Israel into a pariah , they are turning him into one . Once Netanyahu & rsquo ; s biggest problem was that he didn & rsquo ; t have a Washington invite , now it is that the Democrats are being blunt about wanting to overthrow him . Democrats will explain to their voters that they support Israel , not its government and that if needed , they will not hesitate to show Israel some tough love . It & rsquo ; s a message that of course plays well for Republicans who have historically embraced Netanyahu , known for his strong relationship with Trump . Senator Tom Cotton ( R - AR ) called Schumer & rsquo ; s comments & ldquo ; inappropriate & rdquo ; and & ldquo ; offensive .& rdquo ; Republicans who were expected to campaign on strong support for Israel , now have extra fodder for their arguments . Those who worried about the interplay between the Gaza war and the US elections , now have seen the opening act of what will likely be an increasingly contentious Democratic - Republican rift over Israel . The Gaza war and the ensuing Israeli - US diplomatic battles over it will likely make or break the political careers of politicians on both sides of the ocean and both sides of the aisle in Washington . But when the dust has settled and the election season is over , the overall Israeli - American relationship will have taken a hit . Those ties are strongest when Israel remains a bipartisan issue . This week & rsquo ; s drama is a warning shot across the bow , of how a raucous and fateful election could create a Jerusalem - Washington crisis .