A Palestinian who was armed with an ax and had a note saying he intended to carry out a terrorist attack was arrested by police at Tapuah junction in the West Bank on Sunday night . The suspect , 22 , from El - Bireh , traveled around the area for about an hour , looking for Israelis standing alone to attack them with the ax , the police said . The IDF detained eight other Palestinians suspected of terrorist activity on Sunday night , with soldiers operating in a number of locations throughout the West Bank as part of Operation Break the Wave . Suspects were detained in Tulkarm , Beitunya , El - Bireh and Yamun , the IDF said . In Yamun , Palestinian gunmen fired at soldiers . No soldiers were wounded .& ldquo ; The vigilance of the police and the pursuit of contact apparently prevented a major attack ,& rdquo ; said Haim Sargrof , the area & rsquo ; s police commander . & ldquo ; We will continue with determination and professionalism together with the other security forces to protect the security of Israeli citizens everywhere and at all times .& rdquo ; Earlier this month , two Palestinian terrorists killed three civilians with an ax in Elad . After the thwarted attack at Tapuah junction , Samaria Regional Council head Yossi Dagan called for a second Operation Defensive Shield .& ldquo ; We thank the security forces and the police for their determined activity day and night to protect the citizens of Israel ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ;[ On Sunday night ], a major attack in Samaria was prevented . Yet it is impossible not to tell the truth . At the end of the day , a war on terrorism is not just the capture of terrorists at intersections but offensive activity and eradication of terrorism in cities and villages .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; We see videos of dozens of terrorists demonstrating and supporting terrorism , carrying weapons unhindered ,& rdquo ; Dagan said . & ldquo ; The government should instruct the military echelon to launch & lsquo ; Defensive Shield 2 & rsquo ; and not just to use tweezers against terrorists . We are tired of funerals ; we look forward to a real war on terrorism .& rdquo ; On Sunday night , an Israeli man was attacked by a mob and lynched in Isawiya , a neighborhood in east Jerusalem . Paramedics transferred the victim , 43 , to Hadassah - University Medical Center in Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Mount Scopus . He was fully conscious and in stable condition , Magen David Adom said .& ldquo ; According to passersby , he was wounded after being attacked when he entered the neighborhood , and pepper spray was even sprayed on him ,& rdquo ; United Hatzalah paramedic Shadi Shauer said . & ldquo ; I gave him first aid , and then he was taken to [ the hospital ].& rdquo ;