As international actors debate the legitimacy of Israel & rsquo ; s operation in Gaza , the war on Israel & rsquo ; s northern front rages on . Deaths from the Israel - Hezbollah conflict are continuing to rise , and over 100 , 000 Israelis are still evacuated from their homes in northern Israel , leading some to question the efficacy of the UN peacekeeper force meant to maintain security in southern Lebanon . After the Israeli army finished a military operation against the Palestine Liberation Organization ( PLO ) in Lebanon in 1978 , the UN established a temporary peacekeeping force known as the United Nations Interim Forces in Lebanon ( UNIFIL ). The body was meant to restore international peace and security and to assist Lebanon & rsquo ; s government and army in restoring control of the border with Israel . Israel & rsquo ; s 1978 invasion pushed the PLO north of the Litani River , about 18 miles from the border , in order to limit attacks against Israel . Despite the establishment of UNIFIL as a peacekeeper force , Israel returned to Lebanon in 1982 . In 2006 , another conflict broke out between Israel and Hezbollah , a Lebanese Shiite group with ties to Iran . After 34 days of fighting between Hezbollah and Israel in 2006 , the UN brokered a cease - fire . Under the agreement , UN Security Council Resolution 1701 , Israel and Hezbollah agreed to cease hostilities , and UNIFIL was tasked with ensuring that no armed groups other than itself and the Lebanese army operated south of the Litani River . Today , UNIFIL comprises more than 10 , 000 soldiers from 49 nations . In addition to monitoring the border , the organization also provides humanitarian assistance to civilians affected by the exchange of fire in southern Lebanon . UNIFIL ' s role pre - October 7 & ldquo ; Before Oct . 7 , we were able to guarantee the overall stability of the southern border for years , and this was clearly a success ,& rdquo ; Andrea Tenenti , spokesperson for the UNIFIL mission , told The Media Line . & ldquo ; We played an active role . In fact , we have helped the Lebanese army , starting from 2008 , to regain control of the southern part of the country .& rdquo ; Despite UNIFIL & rsquo ; s successes , Hezbollah has grown stronger in southern Lebanon since 2006 , especially in the towns and villages along the 75 - mile - long demarcation line , leading some to criticize UNIFIL as ineffective . Since Oct . 7 , as constant clashes between Hezbollah and Israel have plagued southern Lebanon and northern Israel , those criticisms have grown louder .& ldquo ; The UNIFIL mission started with very weak points and ended up being more a cease - fire resolution than a peacekeeping one ,& rdquo ; Hanin Ghaddar , a senior fellow at the Washington Institute , told The Media Line . She noted that the forces mostly report violations .& ldquo ; They do not possess the tools and permission from the UN to confiscate weapons or even arrest those affiliated with & rdquo ; Hezbollah , she said . Tenenti characterized UNIFIL as & ldquo ; the only ones who can mediate properly & rdquo ; amid the rising tensions , noting that the group had arranged meetings between the Israeli and Lebanese armies . UNIFIL does not only monitor the conflict between Hezbollah and Israel & mdash ; at times , it finds itself caught up in that contact . & nbsp ; Among other incidents , a car bomb killed six UNIFIL personnel in 2007 , and in October , two mortar shells of undetermined origin hit a UNIFIL base , injuring one peacekeeper .& ldquo ; Hezbollah targets UNIFIL because they do not want another actor in the south ,& rdquo ; Ghaddar explained . & ldquo ; It is never an accident when UNIFIL personnel is targeted because the militant group aims to send a message both to the countries that serve in these forces and to the UN : do not interfere with our activities in the southern part of the country .& rdquo ; Avraham Levine , a speaker at the northern Israel - based Alma Research and Education Center , told The Media Line that Hezbollah has more control over UNIFIL than UNIFIL does over Hezbollah .& ldquo ; There are areas where UNIFIL personnel cannot go to , and if they end up by mistake in Hezbollah & rsquo ; s territory , they are attacked on the spot , their vehicles are burnt , and sometimes they are even shot down ,& rdquo ; he said . Levine also said that Hezbollah uses UNIFIL bases for its military purposes .& ldquo ; Both in 2006 and in further operations that Israel carried against Hezbollah , the militants used UNIFIL compounds as shields for their operations in order to stop Israel & rsquo ; s counterattacks against a UN base ,& rdquo ; he said . One of the rockets launched at Israel by Hezbollah in December originated just 20 yards from a UNIFIL compound . Levine said that the Lebanese army & rsquo ; s lack of action to rein in Hezbollah relates to the Shia sympathies of many of the soldiers as well as the interest in avoiding another Lebanese civil war . Describing both UNIFIL and the Lebanese army as ineffective deterrents to Hezbollah , he said that Israel may have to invade Lebanon once again .& ldquo ; We cannot risk another Oct . 7 in the northern part of Israel since [ Hezbollah Secretary - General Hassan ] Nasrallah publicly claimed his goal to invade the Galilee . Even if this scenario is not pleasant for both sides , we may need to stop Hezbollah by entering Lebanon as we did in the past ,& rdquo ; he said . In the event that a full - scale war between Israel and Hezbollah does break out , UNIFIL may be a target , Levine said . & ldquo ; Maybe this may push to reconsider its mission in the first place ,& rdquo ; he speculated .