It truly feels like we are living inside a chapter of the Bible . Yesterday , when news started to come in about the crash of the Iranian president ' s helicopter , I saw that some people were quoting the verse from the Book of Proverbs , written by King Solomon : " When the wicked perish , there is joy ." When righteous people perish from the world , we are sad , and unfortunately , this happened a great deal since October 7th . But on the other hand , here is an opportunity to rejoice . When the wicked perish from the world & ndash ; there is joy in the world ; it is cleaner , purer , and better here without them . But there is another verse , the last verse of the Haftarah , that will be read in synagogues during this coming Shabbat : " Behold , I am the Lord , the God of all flesh ; is there anything too hard for Me ?" We are used to asking , " What will be ?" and getting answers from panels of retired commentators and experts . This verse reminds us that we do not exclusively determine the plot , and with all due respect to the experts & ndash ; reality often surprises . Sometimes , unfortunately , we have difficult scenarios . Still , sometimes , events amaze us for the better : the progression of history toward a positive direction of success that we hadn ' t even imagined . May we be blessed with many more good news stories far beyond what we expected . Has anyone given you anything to pass along ? In the airport , on my way back from London , I was asked the usual question by the customs agent : & ldquo ; Has anyone handed you anything to give to anyone ?& rdquo ; And the truth is that my answer is a resounding & ldquo ; Yes !& rdquo ; & nbsp ;& ldquo ; Someone & rdquo ; has given me something precious : an abundance of support , concern , love , prayer , and feelings of unity from the Jewish community of London directly to Israel . It was a privilege to be among the 40 speakers from Israel to travel to Britain on behalf of & ldquo ; Mizrachi UK & rdquo ; It was a privilege to see how the huge turmoil since October 7th has inspired people to do more : One person is making aliya ; another is organizing a rally ; someone else is organizing a special prayer service , and challah bake ; another is bringing the families of hostages to speak here , and yet another is raising funds and organizing solidarity missions to Israel . Yael Jackson , from the London suburb of Borehamwood , helped organize an event attended by many more people than expected ( as usual , they were looking for more chairs !). She shared the following insight :& nbsp ; & ldquo ; A few years ago , the Covid crisis separated us . Never before had we felt so isolated and alone . By contrast , the current crisis has brought us together like never before . People we & rsquo ; ve never seen before have come to be with us . We & rsquo ; ve never been so united !& rdquo ; Sderot then and now : Spot the differencesThis composite photo of Sderot from October 7th , 2023 , alongside that of Sderot from Independence Day 2024 , tells our story . To quote the prophet Micah : & ldquo ; Rejoice not against me , my enemy ; although I have fallen , I will rise & hellip ;& rdquo ; Kosher & hellip ; and the Beauty of ShabbatAt the start of the war , a soldier on reserve duty came to Muzi Anidger & rsquo ; s restaurant and was disappointed to find that it did not have kosher certification . Then and there , Muzi decided to make all the necessary changes so that his restaurant would be eligible for kosher certification . Since then , he & rsquo ; s delighted tens of thousands of customers in northern Israel with his offerings . Disproving all the naysayers , six months later , when it was time to renew his kosher certification , Muzi announced to all that he was continuing to run the restaurant according to the laws of kashrut and Shabbat .& ldquo ; I always served fantastically delicious food , and it was actually kosher ,& rdquo ; Muzi wrote to me . & ldquo ; The only obstacle to receiving kosher certification was that the business was open on Shabbat . In the last half year , I learned to love Shabbat and the serenity that it brings to body and soul . Our family once again experiences togetherness . The peace and the great atmosphere led me to understand that there is nothing that can compete with Shabbat .& rdquo ; Who said that the inspiration brought on by the war would be short - lived ? A response to the & lsquo ; Holy Stickers & rsquo ; Sara Shapiro teaches at the Hebrew Academy in Marlboro , New Jersey . In response to my article about the & ldquo ; holy stickers & rdquo ; that can be found all over Israel with messages from those who lost their lives since October 7th , she sent me the following : & ldquo ; Based on your idea , I decided to do an activity with my middle - school students . We prepared a special & lsquo ; Yizkor plaque & rsquo ; and included selected quotes in Hebrew and English . So , even if we can & rsquo ; t come to Israel right now , we & rsquo ; ll still be able to benefit from the impact of those messages .& rdquo ; & nbsp ; Translated by Yehoshua Siskin , Janine Muller Sherr . Want to read more by Sivan Rahav Meir ? Visit sivanrahavmeir . com