Emeric Pressburger , the Hungarian - Jewish director and screenwriter who built a career in Berlin , fled the Nazi regime in the 1930s , but unlike many of his European Jewish contemporaries who went to Hollywood , Pressburger immigrated to Britain . There , he teamed up with another up - and - coming filmmaker , Michael Powell , and the two collaborated on a series of wildly popular films that became classics and influenced a generation of young American directors , among them Martin Scorsese , who produced and narrated a new documentary about their work , Made in England : The Films of Powell and Pressburger , which premiered at the Berlinale , the Berlin International Film Festival . In this documentary , Scorsese , who will receive an Honorary Golden Bear Award for his career this year , and who is famous for talking fast , can & rsquo ; t say enough about how these films , which he first saw on television as a sickly child in New York , blew his mind and shaped his sensibility as a filmmaker . Their movies , as this documentary shows in beautiful detail , were visually imaginative and exciting in a way that could appeal to a young boy , but also featured deeply romantic and philosophical themes about choosing a spiritually rewarding life over materialism . They sometimes showcased music and dance , using visual richness to highlight the music , and often their films were very funny in a quintessentially British way . The movies they made together include The Red Shoes , the fantastic and larger - than - life story of a ballerina ( played by real - life ballet dancer Moira Shearer ) who must choose between love and dancing , which became the favorite film of a generation of dance - loving little girls . Their opera adaptation , Tales of Hoffmann , features evocative cinematography that makes the drama of the opera music come to life in a way that influenced Scorsese to become a director , as he explains in the film . They had a few years making British propaganda films to help morale during World War II , including The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp , a gentle comedy - romance that celebrated British sweetness and eccentricity . In addition , they made the quirky romance I Know Where I & rsquo ; m Going ! set on an island off the Scottish coast , and many other movies of British life that were unlike anything made by any other filmmakers . Focus of David Hinton ' s documentaryThe documentary , directed by David Hinton , deals with their working relationship , in which Pressburger , who didn & rsquo ; t speak English till he was in his 30s , outlined the intricate screenplays and created the characters , while Powell wrote the dialogue and handled most on - the - set directing chores . Scorsese seems more interested in Powell and his revolutionary visual flourishes and paints Pressburger as the more & ldquo ; practical & rdquo ; of the partners , who saw the value in compromising with studios who tried to rein in their vision . The movie doesn & rsquo ; t examine Pressburger & rsquo ; s life as a Jewish refugee and his loss of family members , nor does it consider how these experiences might have led him to a more practical approach to his filmmaking career . But it does detail how their partnership was as deep and emotionally charged as any marriage . The movie portrays their breakup as sad , but their love and respect for each other stayed strong , and , after a period when they were virtually forgotten , they later enjoyed recognition for their achievements , spearheaded by a younger generation of filmmakers such as Scorsese and Francis Ford Coppola . Those who are interested in a more detailed look at Pressburger & rsquo ; s life would be advised to track down the 1995 documentary The Making of an Englishman , which was directed by his grandson Kevin Macdonald ( The Last King of Scotland ) and produced by another grandson , Andrew Macdonald ( the producer of Trainspotting ). While they knew their grandfather , he was a distant if admired figure in their lives , but his love of and filmmaking talent were passed down . The Making of an Englishman spends quite a bit of time on his early life , showing how , after leaving Hungary for Germany , he had to sleep in the park while trying to break into the German film industry , one of the most developed in the world at the time . It also shows the difficult moment when he realized he had to flee the Nazi regime and his decision to , as the title suggests , make himself into an English director who had a sensibility as British as any native - born Englishman . His grandsons present him as an enigmatic but fascinating figure .