CNN hired a photojournalist who just three days before posted videos and photos of himself inside Israel during the Hamas massacre , including with an Israeli tank and a room of bloody , dead bodies . Gaza photojournalist Hassan Eslaiah crossed into Israel on October 7 to document the Hamas massacre of more than 1 , 200 Israelis . His photos from the scene appeared on several international news outlets , including The Associated Press , the Jerusalem - based watchdog HonestReporting revealed last week .& nbsp ; CNN had also hired Eslaiah . The watchdog & rsquo ; s story sparked a series of questions and international outcry , ultimately leading to his being let go from the two institutions .& nbsp ; However , CNN said in a statement last week that their working relationship with the freelancer began after the October 7 terrorist attacks on Israel , on October 10 . It also noted that despite its decision to stop working with Eslaiah , it did not have & ldquo ; any reason to doubt the journalistic accuracy of the work he has done for us ,& rdquo ; as reported by Ynet and confirmed by The Jerusalem Post .& nbsp ; The Post confirmed that Eslaiah was not fired for his work on the 7th but for a separate but related concern . It was unclear if CNN knew about Eslaiah & rsquo ; s posts on Telegram before offering him work .& nbsp ; CNN told the Post it will not be commenting further on the matter . Crossing the line : Did a photojournalist support the massacre of Israelis ? The issue goes beyond issues of accuracy or bias but is more about the lines that get crossed when a photojournalist appears to act with delight in response to witnessing the killing of civilians , while working for a major news outlet . HonestReporting showed a screenshot of a now - removed post of the photojournalist on X standing in front of the Israeli tank without a press vest or helmet . The tweet read , & ldquo ; Live from inside the Gaza Strip settlements .& rdquo ; A similar image still appears on his Telegram page . HonestReporting also published a separate image from well before the massacre showing Eslaiah buddying up with Hamas leader Yahya Sinwar . However , by scrolling through Eslaiah & rsquo ; s personal Telegram channel , the Post has found that Eslaiah posted much more than a tank on the 7th , including items that indicate that not only did he likely know about the planned massacre before it began at around 6 : 30 a . m ., but that he supported the deaths of the innocent Israelis he watched being murdered . Eslaiah & rsquo ; s first post on October 7 was at 5 : 59 a . m .: & ldquo ; We wake up to the great gifts of God ,& rdquo ; he posted , according to a translation by ChatGPT . & ldquo ; The spirit has returned , and our blessings have increased .& rdquo ; Within half an hour , he is posting about the rockets being launched at Israel and the sounds of the Iron Dome intercepting them over Khan Yunis . Then , between 6 : 55 a . m . and 8 : 30 a . m ., he posts multiple variations : & ldquo ; To follow the latest news moment by moment , follow me on my media platforms .& rdquo ; At 8 : 29 a . m ., he appears & ldquo ; live from inside the settlements near the Gaza Strip & rdquo ; with a picture of a burning tank in the background . At 8 : 36 a . m ., after witnessing nearly 10 minutes of the massacre , he posts images from the scene with a verse from the Koran : & ldquo ; And on that day , the believers will rejoice in the victory of Allah & rdquo ; and the hashtag & ldquo ;# AqsaFlood .& rdquo ; At 9 : 25 a . m ., the most gruesome of posts is revealed : a video with his watermark : & ldquo ; Filmed by Hassan Eslaiah & rdquo ; in the center , depicting a room full of dead , bloody bodies .& nbsp ; This particular video does not appear to have been published anywhere else . In the background , you hear a calm voice that sounds like his from other videos , and is spoken in his Arabic dialect , stating the following : & ldquo ;[ Animal ] carcasses , carcasses . God is great . This is the path to Jerusalem .& rdquo ; There is another video at 9 : 49 a . m . of his standing in front of burning Jewish homes as terrorists run by . And a final video one minute later of his leaving Israel on the back of someone & rsquo ; s motorbike .& nbsp ; Is this the kind of photojournalist that major news outlets should be hiring ? What kind of vetting process should be required before hiring someone in a foreign country ? Perhaps these are the questions that all international outlets should now be asking themselves .