Garfield , that lazy , lasagna - loving cat , is back , in The Garfield Movie , which opened throughout Israel this week , and this ferociously selfish feline may be just the character we need to spend a couple of hours with right now . The movie , which did not have advance screenings prior to press time , is the latest screen portrayal of the surly pet . Those who like to take their children to English - language movies rather than dubbed versions of animated movies are in luck , because this is being released in theaters in two versions , one dubbed into Hebrew and one in English with Hebrew titles , probably because Garfield movies tend to appeal to adults as well as kids . There & rsquo ; s something liberating and almost politically incorrect about seeing a character as gluttonous , lazy , and bossy as Garfield . Other than James Bond when he & rsquo ; s not on a mission , what character gets to do what he wants to do all day , every day ? Right , only Garfield . This time , sadly , Bill Murray , who voiced the cantankerous cat in the 2004 Garfield movie and in 2006 & rsquo ; s Garfield : A Tail of Two Kitties , is not around . Murray & rsquo ; s vaguely hostile hipster persona was perfect for the character . This time , Chris Pratt voices a slightly less cynical , slightly more energetic - sounding Garfield . The new film is all animated , unlike the previous two , in which Garfield was animated and digitally inserted into live - action scenes . The plotWe learn how Jon Arbuckle ( Nicholas Hoult , who made his big - screen debut over 20 years ago , playing the teen who befriends Hugh Grant in About a Boy ) first met his very prideful pet . Jon was having a slice of pizza in a restaurant when he saw Garfield , then a kitten , looking pitiful outside . Jon invited him in , and Garfield consumed the pizza and everything not nailed down . This film features the usual Garfield antics , but then gets into a plot that tells the story of how Garfield gets back in touch with his father , a scruffy alley cat named Vic , voiced by Samuel L . Jackson , of Pulp Fiction and so many other movies .& ldquo ; I & rsquo ; m mixed up with some bad cats , and I need your help ,& rdquo ; says Vic . Garfield replies , & ldquo ; I haven & rsquo ; t seen you for years , and when I do , you pull me into a life of crime .& rdquo ; Vic asks if he has ever jumped a train , to which Garfield responds , & ldquo ; I & rsquo ; ve never jumped .& rdquo ; Vic is being blackmailed by his former associate , Jinx ( Hannah Waddington of Ted Lasso ), and he wants to pay her to leave him alone so he can concentrate on his next heist : a large - scale robbery of Lactose Farms , after which he promises they will be set for life . Liz , Jon & rsquo ; s sometime girlfriend and Garfield & rsquo ; s veterinarian , is played by Dev Joshi . Ving Rhames ( who played Jackson & rsquo ; s gangster boss in Pulp Fiction ) and Cecily Strong of SNL portray characters who get mixed up in the heist , while rapper Snoop Dog voices a character called Snoop Cat . If you & rsquo ; d like to see the older versions of Garfield , you can watch The Garfield Show , a series from about 15 years ago , on Netflix . The two Bill Murray movies are available on Disney + and Apple TV +. Garfield started out as a comic strip , created by Jim Davis , that was published in an Indiana newspaper in the late & rsquo ; 70s and was originally called Jon . Raised on an Indiana farm with 25 cats , Davis later worked in advertising and created the comic strip , thinking at first that readers would connect to stories of the nebbishy Jon , but everyone loved Garfield so much that he quickly had to change the name and the focus of the comic , admitting that Garfield had turned out to be his boss . Soon , the cartoon was syndicated in thousands of newspapers and now is also available online at Garfield . com /. Davis attributes some of its success to the fact that it is apolitical . & ldquo ; My grasp of politics isn & rsquo ; t strong ,& rdquo ; he admitted in an interview . While the movies always have a fairly complicated plot , children seeing them tend to respond most strongly to the silly stuff , like Jon giving the scowling Garfield a bath and blow - drying his fur . And there looks to be enough of that here to keep them amused .