Likud MK Amit Halevi was interviewed Monday morning on Udi Segal and Anat Davidov ' s program on 103FM radio and commented on the current haredi draft law drama . Halevi hurled harsh criticism at the Supreme Court and Attorney - General Gali Baharav - Miara , claiming that this is an issue that these two bodies should not be dealing with at all ." I was still here when the Knesset enacted time and time again this and other amendments to the draft law . Bottom line , the authority was taken from us , the court invalidated this law and arrangement multiple times ," Halevi said at the beginning of his remarks . He then clarified his position on the matter , " This does not mean that I accept that people do not serve in the army . We must honestly say to the public , that not only should the ultra - Orthodox serve in the army , but but so should the Arabs , who for almost four generations have become accustomed to the obscene habit of not participating in the moral , civil , and Torah duty of serving in the IDF . That is why we need to change this as quickly as possible to bring actual results ." According to Halevi , " The proposals in the past were proposals that said ' let ' s understand the ultra - Orthodox , and we will make processes , but in the end , they will lead to a deeper integration into society .' I think everyone who studies Torah or studied Torah in the past knows that this is perhaps the most important mitzvah ; protecting the Jewish people ." Halevi ' s transparency and his open criticism of the government & nbsp ; Halevi continued to emphasize that " This matter requires correction , and yet these two issues , even if you avoid them elegantly , will not pass - even when previous governments [ tried fixing this ], the Supreme Court invalidated different arrangements time and time again . We need to deal with this issue , and it will probably take some time , but there is no doubt that the end result should be that every citizen of the State of Israel , including the Arab public , should be drafted ." When asked whether the intervention of the attorney general and the Supreme Court in the matter was a mistake , Halevi answered decisively , " The Supreme Court ' s intervention over the years in this matter is misplaced intervention and a lack of authority . This is our social , public matter and the Knesset should decide on this . The attorney - general overstepped here . In a terrible irony , but it must be said , maybe if the ultra - Orthodox had supported terrorism a little , she wouldn ' t have dared to cut their budgets ."