■ FOR MANY years anyone speaking of The Voice of Israel was referring to Israel Public Radio & ndash ; and some broadcasters still do . But since October 7 , the & ldquo ; Voice & rdquo ; of Israel has become Michal Herzog , the wife of President Isaac Herzog . Although many people have spoken out against the cruel , inhuman conduct of Hamas , particularly the brutal attacks on women by Hamas sadists , few have spoken out as frequently or in as many influential circles as Michal Herzog , who has made eliminating violent sexual abuse and the use of women and children as weapons of war as her cause . She brings the subject up in conversation at every opportunity and does not allow her listeners to forget that the key victims are those Israeli women abducted by Hamas .& ldquo ; They cannot cry out for themselves ,& rdquo ; she tells her audience . & ldquo ; We have to be their voice . We have to cry out for them .& rdquo ; She has heard the most shocking and heart - breaking stories about these women , and she has ample opportunity to speak out on their behalf during the month of International Women & rsquo ; s Day , as her schedule includes somewhere in the range of a dozen events in various parts of the country & ndash ; and she is invited to speak at all of them . Among those that she attended this week was one hosted by the Israel Building Center ( IBC ) in Netanya , where other speakers focused on different aspects of the construction and housing industry , such as architecture , neighborhood , marketing , interior d & eacute ; cor , the psychology of the decision - making process and more . The event attended by numerous women executives who represented varied careers , was moderated by Ilanit Melchior , who before she became head of strategy at IBC was the longtime director of tourism at the Jerusalem Development Authority , with considerable experience in both public and private sectors . She reminded Herzog that she had said of her when she entered the President & rsquo ; s Residence as the wife of the President of the State that there was no - one better suited to be Israel & rsquo ; s first lady . What has happened in the interim vindicates that opinion , said Melchior . Not to be outdone , IBC chairman Eran Rolls , who was one of a handful of men who were present , declared that Isaac Herzog was the best president in Israel & rsquo ; s history . In keeping with the occasion , Rolls was pleased to see women in executive positions in every field . Although this was indeed something to celebrate , the fact that there were Israeli hostages who were unable to celebrate , remained paramount in everyone & rsquo ; s consciousness . On every seat , there was a yellow tulip & ndash ; a flower whose petals are usually closed just as the hostages are in closure . Yellow , of course , symbolizes the readiness to welcome the hostages when they eventually return home . Launching the Oxford Israel Alumni Society ( OIAS )& nbsp ;■ A CELEBRATION of another kind is also being held in Israel today , March 8 . British ambassador Simon Walters will host the launch of the Oxford Israel Alumni Society ( OIAS ) at a reception at his residence in Ramat Gan . It & rsquo ; s not just because he represents the UK in Israel . He also happens to be an Oxford alumnus . The OIAS is an official alumni club representing the University of Oxford in Israel . More than 600 Israelis have enrolled at Oxford in recent decades . The University is consistently ranked among the top universities worldwide . Despite the relatively large number of Oxford alumni ( including immigrants ) living in Israel , there has not been an active official alumni society in the country in recent years . Among the people attending the society & rsquo ; s opening function will be Anita Leviant , president of the Israel - UK Chamber of Commerce , and Neta Gruber Perry , director at the Innovation Authority , who will each speak on Israel & rsquo ; s contributions to impact investing , focusing on the health and climate sectors . The University of Oxford Alumni Board has officially appointed attorney Simon Kotlerman , Dr . Aviv Yehezkel and Tomer Amir to head the Israel Society . Kotlerman is a social entrepreneur and business development manager ; Yehezkel is cofounder of the cybersecurity start - up Cynamics ; and Amir , is a technology expert . All three are alumni of the prestigious Sa & iuml ; d Business School . Within merely a month , since getting started , they have managed to attract more than 100 Oxford graduates as founding members .& rdquo ; It is with great excitement that we inaugurate the Oxford Israel Alumni Society , a vital part of Oxford & rsquo ; s worldwide alumni network ,& rdquo ; said Kotlerman . & ldquo ; This society is set to become a key venue for collaborative projects and enhancing relations within our global community .& rdquo ; Yehezkel sees the Society as a vital channel for strengthening Israel - UK relations . & ldquo ; By bringing together alumni from various fields in Israel , the society aims to create a supportive community and provide a distinctive channel for reinforcing the Israeli ecosystem through connections with the UK ,& rdquo ; he said . The 96 - year - old who shows up in uniform when needed ■ TECHNICALLY , ISRAELIS who have served in the IDF , are automatically part of the Reserve forces and are called up for duty up to the age of 40 , though many keep going much longer . But it & rsquo ; s doubtful that anyone can beat the record of Ezra Yachin , 96 , who still shows up in his uniform whenever he feels there is a need . During the period of the British Mandate , he was an underground fighter and belonged to Lehi , a right - wing paramilitary organization . Once Independence was declared , he was a combatant in most of the wars in which Israel was engaged , and after that took on other military assignments . This week he joined other active and veteran reservists at the President & rsquo ; s Residence , where President Herzog who is a history buff was possibly more interested in meeting Yachin than the latter was in meeting the president . American media outlets discovered Yachin many years ago and have featured him several times on television and in newspapers and magazines . Jerusalem ' s upcoming Biennale ■ AMONG THE exhibitors in the upcoming Jerusalem Biennale running in the capital from March 25 to April 29 and directed by Ram Ozeri , is internationally - known photographer Joan Roth , whose works will be among thirty exhibitions of varying art forms that collectively come under the heading of contemporary Jewish art . Roth & rsquo ; s exhibition , which includes some of her early works , actually opens earlier and goes on display at the Black Box Gallery on March 11 . More than half a century ago , Roth set herself a photographic mission to make Jewish women visible . Judging by the tribute she received from the late Alice Shalvi , the founder of the Israel Women & rsquo ; s Network , and author with her late husband of an encyclopedia of Jewish women , Roth has obviously succeeded . Shalvi wrote : & ldquo ; Joan Roth has the gift for seeing the significant moment , the meaningful gesture , the fleeting look which conveys an in - depth character , a lifetime of experience , an entire culture ... Joan & rsquo ; s gaze is a female gaze and , in the capacity to penetrate below the surface to the essence of women & rsquo ; s lives , it is a feminist gaze which does not objectify but rather empathizes , sympathizes , identifies with the subjects of her work & rdquo ;. For this exhibition , Roth has blown up photographs that were originally printed in a considerably smaller size , The new dimension also creates new impressions . Assaf Granit set to be kosher & nbsp ;■ CELEBRITY CHEF Assaf Granit and his partner Uri Navon are finally going to be kosher . After all the non - kosher restaurants that their Mahaneh Yehuda group has opened in Israel , London , and Paris in the past , their upcoming venture in Jerusalem & rsquo ; s Rehavia neighborhood will be , according to a report in Yediot Aharonot , a kosher dairy and fish restaurant . But that & rsquo ; s not all . The restaurant will be integral to a 22 - room boutique hotel , which will be their first step into the hotel industry . The hotel will be housed in the Molcho building which is a protected heritage site .& nbsp ; greerfc @ gmail . com