The non - profit Momentum brought 130 Jewish mothers to visit Israel in a trip designed to help them understand the gravity of Hamas & rsquo ; s October 7 attacks , help them connect to their Jewish values and to the state , the organization announced on Tuesday . Momentum which works with the Ministry of Diaspora Affairs and Combating Antisemitism , has collectively transported more than 200 participants in three different solidarity trips , before this one , since October 7 . The current cohort of women hailed from North , Central and South America from countries including : the United States , Canada , Columbia , Chile , Panama , Argentina , Mexico , Uruguay and Israel . What did the mothers do on the trip ? While the trip still maintains the goals of connecting participants to Judaism and Israel , in the wake of October 7 , Momentum has placed a greater emphasis on volunteerism and hearing first - hand accounts from soldiers , evacuees and October 7 massacre survivors . Participants met with the families of the hostages in Tel Aviv & rsquo ; s Kikar HaChatufim ( Hostages Square ) and volunteered at a farm . The group also made chocolates for evacuated families . Additionally , the women prepared meals for IDF soldiers , and visited Sderot and kibbutzim on Israel & rsquo ; s southern border , where they witnessed what remains of the October 7 massacre .& nbsp ;& nbsp ;& ldquo ; The mothers on this trip saw Israel & rsquo ; s stories from their own eyes and heard them from their own ears and now it ' s the time to act ,& rdquo ; said Momentum Founding Director Lori Palatnik . & ldquo ; We hope every participant takes the call of & lsquo ; Hineni & rsquo ; - to show up - and they each go back to their homes to show up for their Israeli sisters who have suffered so much . It is our hope that they come out of this experience forever changed .& rdquo ;& nbsp ;" The purpose of the mission is to provide opportunities for women in the Diaspora to meaningfully contribute to Israeli society while they & rsquo ; re here and identify with their struggles . After hearing from families of hostages , soldiers , farmers and Israeli mothers we hope our participants will emerge from this experience with a new sense of understanding about what Israelis are going through right now . And , collectively , when the Diaspora and Israel come together , we can demonstrate the power of unity ,& rdquo ; Palatnik added . Trip participant Erica Markovitz , from Detroit , said , & ldquo ; I had two friends at the Nova Festival . One of them is still a hostage . I & rsquo ; m here in Israel to bear witness and send a message home and to keep their stories alive .& rdquo ;