A 5 % across - the - board budget cut for government ministries was the main proposal in a series of budget cuts laid out at a Finance Ministry meeting on the 2025 budget held Wednesday , Globes said sources from the ministry told them . Other proposed cuts included pay cuts for senior managers in the public sector , postponed raises in the civil service , abolishing unnecessary ministries , and a NIS 2 to 4 billion cut in funds allocated to coalition parties - all amounting to NIS 3 . 5 billion , according to Globes . While the total amount of cuts that the ministry makes in order to reduce Israel ' s deficit is critical to the country ' s economic recovery ; given Israel ' s political and social climate , the composition of the cuts that are made is also critical . Unequal treatmentFlat budget cuts across the board for all ministries will likely have significant repercussions for all parts of Israel ' s society , which could cause widespread frustration if the public does not think that serious cuts to coalition funds , and funds for unnecessary ministries that prop the coalition up are being prioritized over cuts that hurt the entire public . The recent controversy over the " rabbis bill " and the haredi draft law have highlighted deep discontentment in Israel ' s society when it comes to the treatment of different sectors of society differently and the equal sharing of national burdens . The rabbis bill aims to give the government control over appointments of municipal and neighborhood rabbis , instead of the current system where the cities appoint their rabbis . As pointed out in The Jerusalem Post ' s editorial on Wednesday , this bill is widely viewed as an attempt by the coalition & rsquo ; s haredi parties to appoint its members to positions and gain influence over issues of religion and state . Highlighting the sense that this bill is seens as a coalition jobs - grab , Yesh Atid MK Yaron Levi summed up the inequality many felt this bill strengthened . & ldquo ; If the prime minister can approve 1 , 000 new rabbis , and not 1 , 000 psychologists , then this place is a piece of trash ," he said . Public protest of the unequal sharing of the security burden has also been coming to a head recently as the haredi draft law is advanced with no real solution in sight . The IDF says that they need more manpower , the ultra - Orthodox leadership has not made concessions that would allow for a bill that satisfies this need , and the public fury over this inequality grows with every day that the law is not amended and that more IDF soldiers are killed in the Israel - Hamas war and in Israel ' s northern conflict with Hezbollah . The 2025 budget may become just another instance of the government ' s failing balancing act between coalition pressures and demands by the public to meet the needs of the majority of Israelis . This wouldn ' t be entirely new . The current government has already been criticized for how sectoral its allocation of funds has been and for failing to address this and cut coalition funds when the war necessitated a rethinking of the 2024 budget . & nbsp ;& ldquo ; We found in this budget , that to a much larger extent than in previous coalition agreements , coalition resources were very sectoral ,& rdquo ; former Bank of Israel Governor Karnit Flug told The Jerusalem Post last month .& ldquo ; The fact that they didn & rsquo ; t cut coalition expenditures [ after the outbreak of the war ] that are very sectoral and are not based on professional work substantially undermines the trust in the government . This will make it much harder to come to the public and say & lsquo ; look , there is an additional burden that you will have to incur ,& rsquo ;& rdquo ; explained Flug . The Israel - Hamas war has brought the issue of the unequal burden on Israel ' s different sectors , long kicked down the road , to a head . Given this and the precarious situation of the coalition , Israel ' s budget could potentially be the next crisis that could topple it , or bring the widespread public protest to new boiling points . Public trust in the government has been stretched and challenged possibly beyond repair since the outbreak of the war , and also in the year prior during the advancement of the judicial overhaul . The budget is another opportunity for the government to try to show the public it is prioritizing the needs of the many ; or for it to show that coalition demands are the top of its list of priorities .& nbsp ;