A 35 - year - old settler from Beit El has been arrested on suspicion of murdering a Palestinian boy during settler riots that raged in the West Bank last month in the aftermath of the murder of 14 - year - old Israeli shepherd Binyamin Achimair , media reported on Friday . Several Palestinians were killed during the riots , during which homes and cars were torched in several villages surrounding the area where Achimair & rsquo ; s body was found . Riots erupted in the aftermath of the murder of 14 - year - old Israeli shepherd Binyamin Achimair in April . Several Palestinians were killed during the riots , during which homes and cars in several villages surrounding the area where Achimair ' s body was found were torched . Five people were arrested a week ago on suspicion of rioting and inciting the riots . The suspect is accused of murdering 17 - year - old Omar Ahmad Abdulghani Hamed from the village of Beitin , just north of Ramallah . After his death , Hamas issued posters bearing his picture and the words & ldquo ; Our Martyr the Fighter .& rdquo ; The suspect ' s detailsThe suspect is a married reservist from Beit El . Before the beginning of his hearing , he proclaimed his innocence and called his arrest & ldquo ; false .& rdquo ; He accused the Shin Bet ( Israel Security Agency ) of orchestrating the arrest , because he refused to answer questions the agency had about settler activity in the area . The suspect claims he was not told he was a suspect and , for that reason , did not call a lawyer until he had already been arrested . The suspect claims he was not told he was a suspect and , for that reason , did not call a lawyer until he had already been arrested . His lawyers said the only reason for his arrest was due to his vehicle being seen driving around the area where Hamed was murdered . Police responded , saying that initially , he was not a suspect , but as the investigation developed , he became one . Police requested that his extension be extended for 10 days in order to allow them to conduct a full investigation without interference from the suspect . The judge gave the police a four - day extension , meaning the suspect will be released on Monday unless another extension is granted . Giving his reasoning , the judge said , that & ldquo ; it appears from the material that there is reasonable suspicion . The suspect maintains his right to remain silent & ndash ; which , although it is a fundamental right , has a particular significance .& rdquo ;