Living in temporary accommodation in the desert above the Dead Sea , nine - year - old Emily Hand and her father , Thomas , slowly recover from an ordeal that has upended their lives as the Gaza war rages . Emily , a dual Irish - Israeli citizen , was kidnapped by Hamas militants on Oct . 7 last year during a rampage of killing and destruction on her Kibbutz Be ' eri . She spent 50 harrowing days in captivity in Gaza until her release in November . Since her reunification with her father , Dublin - born Thomas Hand , they have been moving from one place of temporary accommodation to another , carrying only a few belongings and the family dog . Hand said his native Ireland had been instrumental in the release of his daughter . But he voiced strong criticism of the Irish government ' s recognition of a Palestinian state . He feels the step rewards Hamas , the Palestinian Islamist group that kidnapped his daughter after the attack on Israel in which 1 , 200 people were killed and more than 250 taken to Gaza as hostages ." I ' m ashamed to call myself Irish "" All my life I was proud to be Irish and I told people around me that . I ' m not so proud anymore . I ' m ashamed and embarrassed to call myself Irish ," said Hand ." The Irish authorities were part of Emily ' s release process . They know everything , everything that Hamas did . They saw the footage from the terrorists ' GoPro cameras . So here , this is their reward , recognition of the country . Nice of them ," Hand added sarcastically . Ireland said its stance is rooted in seeking a peaceful resolution to the Israeli - Palestinian conflict ." We ' re praying for it to happen and for all of this to end . All they ( Hamas ) have to do is hand over the hostages , and the war is over ," said Hand . He tries to provide a sense of normalcy for Emily , and says that , despite one or two triggers , she is on track for a full recovery . Tens of thousands of Israelis have been displaced from the southern communities near the border with Gaza amid the ongoing war , and also from northern Israel due to ongoing cross - border hostilities between Hezbollah and Israeli forces .& nbsp ;