Medical personnel gathered in protest outside Sheba Medical Center in Tel Hashomer on Wednesday morning , as scientists from the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot held a strike against police violence at protests , especially against medical teams . The protest and strike followed recent incidents in which protesters were hurt . Police used & ldquo ; disproportionate violence alongside illegal use of means to disperse protests ,& rdquo ; protest organization Change Generation said in a statement . Police shot water cannons directly at protesters , causing some to lose consciousness and sending others to emergency rooms , it said . Dr . Tal Weissbach was injured at a protest in Jerusalem earlier this week after the spray from a water cannon hit her in the eye , even though she was clearly identifiable as a medical professional .& ldquo ; It & rsquo ; s interesting that specifically I , with the bright orange [ vest ] with & lsquo ; doctor & rsquo ; on the back , got a direct spray ,& rdquo ; Weissbach said in a video released by protest organization Yalla Tikva .& ldquo ; Is [ National Security Minister Itamar ] Ben - Gvir ordering [ police ] to harm medical professionals specifically ?& rdquo ; she asked . In response , the Israel Police said it takes seriously the & ldquo ; disruption of public order and violent riot that occurred on Aza Street ,& rdquo ; which included setting fires on the road , physical altercations with officers , and attacking officers , as well as trying to pass police barricades . Violent incidentsAll of this occurred after police & ldquo ; allowed the freedom of protest and the coordinated parade for hours , as well as securing them ,& rdquo ; the police said . & ldquo ; As far as there are claims against those police who acted [ at the protest ], they should be referred to the bodies that are authorized to handle them , as usual .& rdquo ; The incident followed another one in which a doctor was dragged violently by police while providing medical treatment to a protester , said medical professional protest organization the Whitecoats . Organizers also accused the police of violence when removing protesters blocking the exit from Jerusalem on Tuesday . Protest organization Change Direction blocked the road with protesters who climbed ladders held aloft by other protesters with ropes . Footage of police clearing the protest appears to show police knocking the ladder to the road and one officer hitting a protester in the head with his fist repeatedly . One of the protesters on the ladder knocked to the ground was taken to a hospital emergency room .& ldquo ; This is what a police [ force ] that is losing its way looks like ,& rdquo ; said Change Direction on X , sharing a video in which police appear to pull the ladder out from under the protester . & ldquo ; They are willing to risk the life of a protester to clear a road .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; We did not believe that the police would be willing to knock a protester down from a height of three meters ,& rdquo ; it said . & ldquo ; They could have easily taken her down safely , but chose the violent way .& rdquo ; In response , the police said dozens of protesters had disturbed public order and endangered themselves by climbing ladders while blocking the main access road to Shaare Zedek Medical Center and a main artery out of the city .& ldquo ; When forces arrived , an order was given to them to disperse by the police commander on site ,& rdquo ; the police said . & ldquo ; After they did not heed this , police began pushing those disturbing the public order toward the sidewalk to try to open the road .& rdquo ; Protest organizations cited additional incidents this week in which protesters were harmed by the police or prevented from receiving medical treatment . The Whitecoat organization said a man & rsquo ; s leg was broken after a water cannon stream threw him into a wall . Many of the incidents occurred this week during what protest organizations are calling an escalation of actions taken by them to bring back the hostages or to replace the government . On Monday and Tuesday , there were large rallies at the Knesset . The rally on Monday was attended by an estimated 150 , 000 people , according to protest organizers . There were also protests and strikes held at high schools throughout the country , and protests are scheduled to take place in the North and South . Protest convoys are also scheduled for this week , the protest organizers said . Israel Police Insp .- Gen . Kobi Shabtai on Wednesday addressed the public & rsquo ; s confidence in and the role of the police , as well as accusations of the politicization of police , at a conference at Tel Aviv University .& ldquo ; When a police officer exercises authority toward a citizen , he must see the law , and only the law , before his eyes ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; The citizen must know that the policeman standing in front of him represents the law only and is certainly not acting on behalf of one minister or another .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; The police in a democratic country must be free , with absolutely no politics ,& rdquo ; Shabtai said . & ldquo ; It must remain autonomous & ndash ; free of any political bias , one way or another . This is the only way to guarantee police independence .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; The clear boundaries between the political echelon and the enforcing entity are cracking , and I fear what might happen if they are completely erased ,& rdquo ; he said . & ldquo ; The only way to avoid this is to maintain the clear separation between the political echelon and the law - enforcing entity .& rdquo ;& ldquo ; During my tenure as police commissioner , I worked under three ministers ,& rdquo ; Shabtai said . & ldquo ; Naturally , every minister has a different professional outlook . Unfortunately , especially in the past year , the current minister & rsquo ; s attempts to blatantly violate the required balance have been multiplying . There are many examples of this . Don & rsquo ; t make the mistake of regarding the last event as an issue that has only come up in the last month .& rdquo ;