Love struck Rusalka ( soprano Alla Vasilevitsky ) meets a handsome prince ( tenor Alexei Dolgov ) in the same - titled opera by Czech composer Anton & iacute ; n Dvor & aacute ; k , now offered at the Israeli Opera . Sadly , she is a mermaid and he is a human . When she attempts to touch him , he thinks she is a wave in a pool . To leave her realm , Rusalka trades with the witch woman Jezibaba ( mezzo - soprano Edna Prochnik ), exchanging her voice for legs . Will the prince see how much she loves him when she is mute , and she will gain a human soul , or will he reject this pale , sad , silent woman and condemn her to change again & ndash ; this time to a murdering bog spirit ? Delighting opera fans for over 100 yearsThis much beloved opera , with its mythical and folk aspects , has delighted opera fans since its world premiere in 1901 . Director Stefano Poda has adapted it in a visually stunning , powerful manner . More conventional adaptations & ndash ; like the 1977 Czech film by Peter Weigl , or the 2017 Met Opera production directed by Sir Mark Elder & ndash ; have characters move on stage from forest pool to palace and back as if in a fairy tale ; Poda floods the stage and makes it an actual pool . When Rusalka & rsquo ; s father , the water spirit Vodnik ( baritone Ionut Pascu ) emerges , he rises from that pool . The element of water is massive . The nymphs lay down and roll around Vodnik , unable to rise since , in this mythic logic , they don & rsquo ; t have feet . Pascus is able to sing beautifully , inhabits the role of the grieving father who laments the loss of his daughter to the human realm , and jumps to the pool without missing a beat . Good opera is hard ; to sing submerged in water is an Olympian feat . Starring in the title role , Vasilevitsky offered a wonderful performance from start to finish . It was a delight to watch her interact with Prochnik in the role of Jezibaba . Poda & rsquo ; s vision had the witch walk with a collection of iron items attached to her dark dress . When she tears a dagger and offers it to a distressed Rusalka , encouraging her to murder her prince , we sense that Jezibaba is reliving a past trauma of her own . This is implied by her strong insistence that Rusalka is motivated only by desire , and the witch & rsquo ; s taunts that the prince & rsquo ; s & ldquo ; kissy - kisses & rdquo ; were not what the mermaid - turned - human expected . Rusalka , who actually wants a soul , pretends the witch is wise and all - knowing to get her to help . One of the few major world operas performed in Czech , Jezibaba often speaks in a diminutive form . When she says to Rusalka & ldquo ; by the devil you will have feet ,& rdquo ; what she is actually saying is & ldquo ; by the devil you will have footsie - wussies to walk with .& rdquo ; Prochnik & rsquo ; s performance of the aria & ldquo ; Cury mury fuk & rdquo ; ( roughly translated as & ldquo ; abracadabra & rdquo ;) during the potion - making scene was outstanding . A gargantuan production , some things were lost due to its grandeur . When Jezibaba meets the hunter ( baritone Oded Reich ) and the kitchen apprentice ( mezzo soprano Rona Shrira ), they are meant to be scared of her . It is very difficult to convince the audience they are frightened if they were told to collect plastic bags from the water pool and keep on singing when a scary , evil witch is speaking with them . Like Rusalka , who gave her voice in exchange for a shot at a human soul and true love , this production traded some of the familiar aspects of this opera to gift the audience with a larger - than - life production many will remember with deep gratitude for years to come . Anton & iacute ; n Dvor & aacute ; k & rsquo ; s & lsquo ; Rusalka & rsquo ; will perform daily until Thursday , March 14 , at 8 p . m . & ndash ; except for one Friday performance on March 15 , given at 1 p . m . Three hours long , two intermissions . Sung in Czech with Hebrew and English titles . NIS 195 - 405 per ticket . Call ( 03 ) 692 - 7777 for bookings . The Israeli Opera , 19 Shaul Hamelech St ., Tel Aviv .