Tensions are elevated in Jerusalem amid several devastating terrorist attacks in the city over the past month .& nbsp ; The first , on a Shabbat evening in the Neveh Ya & rsquo ; acov neighborhood , left seven Israelis dead as they departed synagogue to go home to their meals . The next day , a 13 - year - old Palestinian opened fire on Jewish worshipers in the City of David , leaving two civilians wounded . Shortly before sundown on Friday last week , a terrorist rammed his vehicle into Israelis at a bus stop , killing three & ndash ; including two brothers aged six and eight . And there were two stabbing attacks this past week , one by a 14 - year - old . This is alongside record numbers of Palestinians being killed by IDF forces in the West Bank during ensuing raids and arrests , leading to a general feeling of unease by everyone in the holy city . The Magazine spoke with a range of individuals in the capital to find out how they feel , what they are doing differently , and where they see things going . What did Israelis think about the violence in Jerusalem ? Views were diverse , depending on where they stood in the spectrum & ndash ; whether native - born Israeli , immigrant , secular or religious . For example , Samantha Levy , an activist who moved to Israel nine years ago , said that & ldquo ; the circumstances in Jerusalem lead me to seek out training in self - defense and how to handle security threats .& rdquo ; For native Israelis or those who have lived in the country for a long time , recent events have rekindled horrid memories from the days of the Second Intifada in the early 2000s . Noam Elia , an Israeli - American who grew up in Jerusalem and returned six months ago after living in New York for a decade , said that the situation is not like then , when buses were blowing up nearly every week . He added , however , that things are moving in a dangerous direction .& nbsp ;& ldquo ; I remember during the Second Intifada riding my scooter up Agrippas Street and was about to turn into the Nahalot neighborhood when I saw a police officer at the end of the street . I decided not to turn , and a few seconds later a huge explosion went off . It is scary .& rdquo ; Noam Elia & ldquo ; I remember during the Second Intifada riding my scooter up Agrippas Street and was about to turn into the Nahalot neighborhood when I saw a police officer at the end of the street . I decided not to turn , and a few seconds later a huge explosion went off . It is scary .& rdquo ; Although bombs are not going off today , & ldquo ; you have to keep an eye out for suspicious people or activities . Jerusalem is the center of all of this .& rdquo ; Emanuel , a tech entrepreneur , recalled what it was like to grow up in Jerusalem . & ldquo ; You are exposed to persistent conflict from a young age . I remember being in school in the heart of the city , and you could hear the sounds of attacks while sitting in class .& ldquo ; The constant state of alertness , whether at bus stops or while taking public transportation , has become a way of life for me . Despite this , I have not let it sway my choice of making Jerusalem my home .& rdquo ; Another resident , Isabella Swart , said there is a sense of anxiety in the air but that & ldquo ; Israel is a super - resilient country . We are not afraid because we are in our land with our people .& rdquo ; She continued with a suggestion to add cement barriers on sidewalks to prevent ramming .& nbsp ; Elya Cowland of Ramot , where the two children were killed last week , spoke somberly about an attack that was close to home . & ldquo ; Despite not knowing the victims , I feel a heightened sense of tragedy and loss . When terror struck my neighborhood , the numbness I usually feel regarding these attacks shattered . I saw with complete clarity the heinousness and horrific nature of the event .& rdquo ;& nbsp ;& ldquo ; Despite not knowing the victims , I feel a heightened sense of tragedy and loss . When terror struck my neighborhood , the numbness I usually feel regarding these attacks shattered . I saw with complete clarity the heinousness and horrific nature of the event .& rdquo ; Elya CowlandRabbi Yehoshua Pfeffer of Ramot also spoke about the attacks as he was headed to the shiva for the victims , pointing out two ways to view the situation . & ldquo ; On the one hand , this is a human tragedy & ndash ; and that is perhaps the first reaction , especially with this so close to home . These are bus stops where all our kids are , so you feel a certain sense of insecurity ; you don & rsquo ; t know who is going to be next . The result is a more tense atmosphere .& ldquo ; The religious response is to turn to God in prayer and strengthen elements of practice . But there is also the political aspect . For example , people such as [ National Security Minister Itamar ] Ben - Gvir have promised to restore security in face of attacks and threats .& ldquo ; He is always first at the scene and garnered support from even haredim and the youth . And yet , has he done anything ? Is it all talk or will he actually do something that will give us a greater sense of security ?& rdquo ; He pointed out that Ramot is a primarily haredi area . & ldquo ; We don & rsquo ; t consider ourselves settlers ; there is no settler consciousness here . This is happening to us , and what is the response from our rabbis and [ haredi ] politicians ? Nothing . Just to pray . Of course we need to , but we also need policy .& rdquo ; Pfeffer lamented the imbalance between MKs and rabbis , who & ldquo ; can speak up on religious matters & ndash ; which are important & ndash ; but so are people & rsquo ; s lives . If you have the privilege to be in power , you cannot sit on the sidelines . It is up to [ the politicians ] to come up with some type of policy .& rdquo ; ARABS WHO live in east Jerusalem chose to remain anonymous when speaking with the Magazine . One said that he thinks that & ldquo ; the silent majority of east Jerusalemites don & rsquo ; t like attacks on civilians because it hurts them more than it benefits them . However , I think the majority see attacks on soldiers and police as a win .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; Others expressed outrage at the deadly shooting at the Neveh Ya & rsquo ; acov synagogue , saying that & ldquo ; attacks on those leaving prayer services is crossing a line .& rdquo ;& nbsp ; Yet it is evident that the general mood among Palestinians in east Jerusalem and the West Bank is reaching a boiling point . This is especially true in east Jerusalem . Arabs there are under complete Israeli sovereignty , yet lack the same services that are available to Israelis . This includes issues surrounding passports and visas & ndash ; flash points , as they desire the freedom to travel and work abroad . The reality is bleaker in West Bank cities such as Nablus or Jenin , where many attackers come from . What happens going forward ? Policymakers are assessing how the terror attacks will impact tourism and , in turn , the economy . Upward of four million people on average visit Jerusalem annually , with tourism a vital economic lifeline . Jerusalem Deputy Mayor Fleur Hassan - Nahoum , whose portfolio includes tourism , told the Magazine that & ldquo ; the recent terrorist attacks have shaken our whole nation and left us in mourning . I understand the fear and concern among our residents and tourists alike , but Jerusalem is a city of strength and resilience .& ldquo ; It has faced and overcome many challenges in the past , and these acts of terror will not define it .& rdquo ; She continued that & ldquo ; necessary measures have been taken to ensure safety and security . I am confident that Jerusalem will continue to thrive and attract visitors from around the world .& rdquo ; HOW TO respond on an individual level is a question on the minds of many . Ben - Gvir has pushed for expediting gun licenses for civilians , pointing to the fact that many terrorists are stopped quickly by armed Israelis . Those interviewed echoed this sentiment , expressing a desire to obtain a license and purchase a gun . Some are even carrying deterrents such as pepper spray or knives . Elia said he has purchased pepper spray for himself and his family ; others said they keep an eye out for potentially dangerous situations .& nbsp ; Arguably , the most frightening reality about the current attacks is just how unpredictable they can be . Unlike in the past , when attacks were often carried out by centralized terror groups , today & rsquo ; s terrorists may have no prior history of criminal behavior , yet find themselves so radicalized that they take up arms .& nbsp ; These types of & ldquo ; lone wolf & rdquo ; terrorists have sprung up across the world and are also a challenge for Israel & rsquo ; s police forces . Though there is a common profile of these attackers & ndash ; single and unemployed & ndash ; the provocative rhetoric in the mosques and the proliferation of hateful messaging on social media are also inciting brutal attacks on civilians , young and old . WHERE THIS is leading to is anyone & rsquo ; s guess . Will it spiral into an all - out third intifada as some predict ? Though many hope not , the possibility is nevertheless being discussed . Even the smallest of perceived provocations , such as Ariel Sharon & rsquo ; s 2000 visit to the Temple Mount , can spiral out of control and be the catalyst of wide - scale disturbances . Levy pointed out that the lack of action or change in the political realm ensures that the status quo of terror will continue . & ldquo ; Our political figures have not been pursuing the change that we need .& rdquo ; As a result , & ldquo ; it makes no sense that children should have to be killed by a ramming at a bus stop before Shabbat or that older people should be killed as they exit a synagogue after prayers .& rdquo ; Elia believes politicians like Ben - Gvir and Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich are aiming for escalation , as & ldquo ; it can help reach a determination in the conflict .& rdquo ; In any case , it is clear from these discussions that despite the uptick in violence , no one is making plans to leave the country . This is their home , nowhere else . With that in mind , no amount of attacks can stop people from continuing to move to the capital and start families . 