The current US administration is & ldquo ; appalled & rdquo ; by the conduct of Israel & rsquo ; s government , opposition leader MK Yair Lapid said in a press conference on Monday ahead of a meeting of his Yesh Atid party , after returning from a week - long visit to Washington .& ldquo ; This government , this prime minister , has become an existential threat against Israel ,& rdquo ; Lapid said . They destroyed Israeli deterrence . Our enemies look at this government , smell weakness , and raise their heads ,& rdquo ; Lapid said .& ldquo ; Our allies also smell this weakness . I was in Washington last week , in a meeting with top administration officials . They are appalled by this government : irresponsibility , the lack of professionalism , the failed management , the ingratitude ,& rdquo ; Lapid said . Lapid argued that the legacy of Netanyahu , who called himself & ldquo ; Mr . Security & rdquo ; in the past , was a & ldquo ; wasteland from Kiryat Shmona to Be & rsquo ; eri , violence by Jewish settlers that is out of hand , and a complete loss of Israeli deterrence .& rdquo ; He added that Netanyahu was delaying an agreement with Hamas to return its hostages . כל מה שנשאר מ ״ מר בטחון ״ זה עיי חורבות מבארי עד קרית שמונה , אלימות של טרוריסטים יהודים שיצאו משליטה , ואובדן גמור של ההרתעה הישראלית . אם לא נזיז את הממשלה הזו בזמן , היא תביא עלינו חורבן . היא כבר מביאה . הגיע הזמן לבחירות , עכשיו .& mdash ; יאיר לפיד - Yair Lapid (@ yairlapid ) April 15 , 2024 " Our problem is Iran , but our problem is also here & hellip ; it is time for an election now ," Lapid concluded . Likud fires backThe Likud responded in a statement :& ldquo ; Lapid , who signed an embarrassing surrender agreement with Hezbollah , and preferred to remain abroad this week while Israel was attacked , is not the person to preach . Prime Minister Netanyahu , who identified the Iranian threat already dozens of years ago , since then has led a global campaign against it , to prevent its obtaining nuclear weapons that would have been an existential threat against Israel .& rdquo ; Lapid responded with a statement of his own :& ldquo ; Israeli deterrence in Lebanon collapsed when Netanyahu enabled Hezbollah to build two tents in the sovereign territory of the State of Israel , as opposed to Lapid , who cut the maritime [ border ] agreement despite Hezbollah & rsquo ; s opposition .& ldquo ; Regarding Iran : If Netanyahu worked all these years on the Iranian issue , how have they become a nuclear threshold state , and sent hundreds of drones and cruise missiles to attack the State of Israel ?& rdquo ; Later on Monday , Lapid called in the Knesset plenum for minister MK Benny Gantz and Gadi Eisenkot to leave the government . Gantz and Eisenkot joined the government on October 11 and are members of Israel & rsquo ; s war cabinet , but have vowed to leave the government once they feel that they no longer influence the war . Lapid argued in his speech that & ldquo ; every time we are presented with a new proposal of theirs in the cabinet but no one listens to them ,& rdquo ; and that the way to have true influence was to replace the current government with a new one .& nbsp ;