Israel & rsquo ; s military is bracing for an attack near the border with Gaza , but other areas might be at risk as well . Khaled al - Batsh , head of the politburo of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad in the Gaza Strip , told The Media Line that central Israel is under threat by his organization .& ldquo ; We have every right to bomb Israel with our most advanced weapons , and make the occupier pay a heavy price . We will not settle for attacking around Gaza , but we will bomb the center of the so - called State of Israel ,& rdquo ; Batsh said .& ldquo ; We have every right to bomb Israel with our most advanced weapons , and make the occupier pay a heavy price . We will not settle for attacking around Gaza , but we will bomb the center of the so - called State of Israel .& rdquo ; Khaled al - BatshIn an interview with The Media Line on Wednesday , Batsh made it clear that Islamic Jihad intends to retaliate for the arrest of its West Bank commander , Bassam al - Saadi , late on Monday night . & ldquo ; The Palestinian Islamic Jihad can & rsquo ; t sit silent and watch the Israeli crimes , and the spilling of Palestinian blood in the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip ,& rdquo ; he said . Batsh also denied that Hamas is trying to prevent the Palestinian Islamic Jihad ( PIJ ) from attacking Israel , stating that contact between the organizations is ongoing . & ldquo ; No one attempts to stop us from using our right to stop the Israeli crimes ,& rdquo ; he said .& ldquo ; Our goal is to make the occupation pay for its crimes , and to prove that the Islamic Jihad will keep to its commitment to protect the Palestinian people and the resistance anywhere ,& rdquo ; he added . Cabinet meets to discuss tensionsIsraeli security cabinet met Wednesday for a briefing by the heads of security Shin Bet , chief of staff and head of the intelligence corps , about the high tension in the area surrounding the Gaza Strip . The ministers were briefed about status and steps taken to protect residents of the area . Roads are closed and bus stations are heavily secured in the areas surrounding the Gaza Strip , as Israeli security forces estimate a coming attack from the Palestinian Islamic Jihad . Security officials in Israel claim that both armed forces and civilians are at risk , as the PIJ might attempt to take revenge for the arrest of Bassam al - Saadi , a senior commander in the organization , which took place in the west bank city of Jenin Monday night . Videos of the arrest showing Saadi dragged on the ground and bit by a dog went viral on social networks immediately after the arrest , causing rage among the terror group supporters . In an unusual step , Israeli security forces published a photo of Saada after the arrest , attempting to prove he & rsquo ; s alive and calm down the flames .' If they wanted to shoot rockets - they would have already done that ' Eyal Hajbi , the security chief of Sha & rsquo ; ar HaNegev regional council talked to The Media Line about the difficulties in being on alert : & ldquo ; Not one bullet was fired , yet we & rsquo ; re already acting like there is a war going on . People take roads that take 40 minutes instead of 5 minutes , because of the roadblocks . Don & rsquo ; t get me wrong - it & rsquo ; s frustrating , but I understand where it & rsquo ; s coming from ,& rdquo ; he says . & ldquo ; We want to prevent them [ the Palestinian Islamic Jihad - A . K .] from getting a victory image , by bombing a vehicle or a sniper shooting a solider .& rdquo ; Hajbi also has an estimation of what could be the form of the attack : an anti - tank missile , or a sniper attack . & ldquo ; If they wanted to retaliate by shooting rockets - they would have already done that . It & rsquo ; s these actions that require more preparation ,& rdquo ; he explains . & ldquo ; And it & rsquo ; s dangerous because it can easily trigger an escalation . Don & rsquo ; t forget that Guardian of the Walls [ May 2021 escalation between Israel and Hamas - A . K ] started of an anti - tank shooting from the Gaza Strip .& rdquo ; While the military is blocking more and more roads around Gaza , the PIJ keeps a fog around its plans , creating an atmosphere of uncertainty for the communities around the Gaza strip . & ldquo ; People here don & rsquo ; t really have a choice . We know where we live and accept the costs . But it & rsquo ; s inconvenient , and tense times like this make everyone more anxious in the long run ,& rdquo ; says Hajbi . The Israeli military didn & rsquo ; t respond to The Media Line & rsquo ; s enquiries by time the article was published .