israel - hamaswar advertis support by palestinian and isra offici offer differ account of a deadli scene in northern gaza , in which local health offici said more than 100 peopl were kill . byhiba yazbekandaaron boxerman isra forc open fire on thursday as a crowd gather near a convoy of aid truck in gaza citi in a chaotic scene in which score were kill and injur , accord to gazan offici and the isra militari , which attribut most of the death to a stamped . although offici from both side offer differ account , the death of so mani peopl who were surround a convoy carri food in a part of gaza where starvat is rampant reflect the desper and spiral lawless in the territori follow israel ’ s ground invas and threaten to derail ongo ceas - fire talk . the gazan health ministri said in a statement that isra forc had kill more than 100 peopl and had injur 700 other in a “ massacr , ” as they wait for food from the convoy . the latest bloodsh came as gaza ’ s health offici report that the death toll from the war had risen abov 30 , 000 , a grim mileston that intensifi pressur on israel to end it militari offens . transcript thousand of desper hungri civilian in northern gaza gather on the street befor dawn on thursday , hope to find food on a humanitarian convoy . instead , hundr were kill and injur tri to get aid from the truck , accord to gazan health offici . local hospit staff said score were kill or wound by gunfir . the israel defens forc claim that most of the victim were trampl or run over by vehicl , and that their soldier onli fire at a group of peopl who were threaten their forc . isra offici declin to provid unedit footag of the incid . the fragment of drone footag they releas onli add to the confus around the seri of event that kill and wound so mani gazan . i . d . f . footag show hundr of civilian surround aid truck on the coastal al - rashid road in gaza citi . throng of peopl crowd around each truck , hope to catch bag of food as they are toss off the back . at one point , peopl in the crowd suddenli appear to panic and run in multipl direct . the i . d . f . say that thi footag show a mass stamped where gazan are trampl , but the qualiti and short length of the clip make it difficult to confirm these claim . anoth clip in the i . d . f . footag show two isra tank a quarter - mile down the road and at least a dozen bodi lie nearbi . the video doesn ’ t show the event that caus the casualti , but sever peopl can be seen crawl and duck for cover . other video , film from a side street by an al jazeera camera crew , help fill in some of the gap about what unfold on the ground . it captur shot fire as crowd of peopl scatter and take cover . it is not clear when thi footag wa film in relat to the i . d . f . drone video , but what is clearli visibl is tracer ammunit , a special type of projectil that ignit to illumin it path , which help troop fine - tune their target . the sourc of the fire is not captur in the footag , but the trajectori show it ’ s come from the direct where isra militari vehicl are posit , just a half - mile away . an isra militari spokesman , rear adm . daniel hagari , said that isra soldier fire warn shot in the air befor fire “ onli in face of danger when the mob move in a manner which endang them . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis