israel - hamaswar advertis support by the secur council endors a u . s .- back plan , while secretari of state antoni j . blinken visit the middl east to lobbi for it , but hama and israel were noncommitt . transcript “ 14 vote in favor , zero vote against , one abstent . the draft resolut ha been adopt as resolut 2735 . ” “ colleagu , the ceas - fire deal would pave the way toward an endur cessat of hostil and a better futur for all . as presid biden acknowledg just the other day , the palestinian peopl have endur sheer hell in thi war start by hama . there ’ s an opportun to chart a differ cours . ” byfarnaz fassihi , michael crowley , mike ivesandthoma fuller the unit nation secur council on monday adopt a u . s .- back ceas - fire plan for the gaza strip with onli russia abstain , a sign of the grow frustrat among the world ’ s major power over the war and the desir to bring it to an end . linda thoma - greenfield , the u . s . ambassador to the unit nation , told member of the secur council that israel had alreadi agre to the deal laid out in the resolut — although israel ha so far resist take a public posit on it — and she urg hama “ to do the same . ” “ hama can now see that the intern commun is unit , unit behind a deal that will save live and help palestinian civilian in gaza start to rebuild and heal , ” ms . thoma - greenfield said . the 14 - 0 vote may strengthen the hand of secretari of state antoni j . blinken , who return to the middl east on monday to press hama and israel to agre to a ceas - fire . but in a sign of the difficulti face mr . blinken and other mediat in achiev a final deal , israel ’ s repres to the u . n . , reut shapir ben - naftali , did not say that israel had accept the term of the ceas - fire plan . she said that her countri ’ s goal in the war had not chang and that it would use militari oper to free hostag , as it did just two day ago . “ we will continu until all of the hostag are return and hama ’ s militari capabl are dismantl , ” ms . shapir ben - naftali told the council . she said if hama leader freed all hostag and turn themselv in , “ not one shot would be fire . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis