for more audio journal and storytel , download new york time audio , a new io app avail for news subscrib . transcript thi transcript wa creat use speech recognit softwar . while it ha been review by human transcrib , it may contain error . pleas review the episod audio befor quot from thi transcript and email transcript @ nytim . com with ani question . hey , it ’ s michael . befor we start today , we want to invit you to someth realli special . the legendari tribeca festiv is start a brand new annual gala to celebr excel in audio . and for thi , the inaugur year , they ’ ve chosen to celebr “ the daili . ” we know that you , our incred audienc , are all over the world , but we ’ d like you to join us . the gala is in new york on june 9th at 5 : 00 pm . you can get all the detail and buy ticket at tribecafilm . com / thedaili . that ’ s tribecafilm . com / thedaili . i ’ m go to be there . so is sabrina , along with a bunch of us from the show . mo rocca is go to host it . so if you ’ re in the area or visit , we ’ d love to see you there . ok , on with today ’ s show . from “ the new york time , ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis . and thi is “ the daili . ” [ music play ] in an unexpect speech last week , presid biden reveal the detail of a secret propos intend to end the war in gaza . most surpris wa where that propos had come from . today , my colleagu isabel kershner explain biden ’ s gambit and the difficult choic it present for israel ’ s leader , benjamin netanyahu . it ’ s wednesday , june 5 . isabel , tell us about thi speech from presid biden last friday at the white hous . so last friday , presid biden made a speech . and it came at a pivot moment in the war becaus for week beforehand , the whole world had been focus on israel ’ s long delay invas of the citi of rafah , the southernmost citi in the gaza strip and also the citi that about a million displac palestinian had fled to to find refug from fight in other area of the gaza strip . so understand , there wa huge concern intern and particularli a lot of pressur come from the white hous for israel not to go into rafah . it wa just consid way too riski . but for the isra , they were say the last battalion of hama are there . mani hostag are there . and without take control of that area , the isra felt they wouldn ’ t have accomplish anyth . so in the end , they did begin to move into the eastern part of rafah . but then as the isra were oper in eastern rafah with their tank and ground troop , the isra on may 26 carri out a strike , an airstrik . thi wa an attack meant to target two hama oper . and they did , in fact , strike those two oper and kill them with what they said were the smallest missil that their jet could carri . unfortun , that strike then set off an absolut devast fire becaus the area the strike took place in is right by a camp of makeshift shack and tent where hundr or thousand of palestinian were shelter . thi fire rip through the tent and end up kill 45 civilian accord to the gazan health author . and it wa exactli the kind of disast that everybodi had fear if israel were to oper in thi crowd , southern , dusti border town . which presum put a lot more pressur on the biden white hous to do someth about thi war . that ’ s right . now , we know that the white hous , the biden administr , would veri much like to see thi war come to an end as soon as possibl . and then on friday — good afternoon . befor i begin my remark — — presid biden give a speech . and surprisingli — now to anoth issu . — thi speech when it turn to the israel - hama war wa not about rafah . in fact , it wa someth total differ and much bigger . israel ha now offer — israel is offer a comprehens new propos . it ’ s a road map to an endur ceasefir and the releas of all hostag . what presid biden describ as the outlin of an isra propos for a ceasefir truce and hostag releas deal with hama that would end the war . thi propos ha been transmit by qatar to hama . today , i want to lay out hi term for the american citizen and for the world . and , isabel , what did he mean exactli by the isra propos ? well , there ’ s been a lot of smoke and mirror around thi whole process of talk and negoti between israel and hama . and , in fact , the last time we saw a negoti actual result in a temporari ceas fire and a partial hostag releas wa at the end of last novemb . but , in fact , there had been thi on again , off again attempt at get negoti back on track over the last few week . and it soon came to light that thi wa the latest isra propos that wa appar present . and thi propos it turn out wa unanim approv as a basi for the negoti by israel ’ s war cabinet . and here is an american presid spell out thi previous undisclos isra posit on televis . absolut . and the isra public knew noth about thi . so what doe biden actual say ? what doe he say is in thi propos ? ok , well , what he say — thi new propos ha three phase . three . he present it as a deal in three phase , which is gener in line with all the previou plan of the last few month . and the first phase would involv a six week temporari ceasefir dure which a certain number of hostag — — includ women , the elderli , the wound — — the most vulner one — there are american hostag who would be releas at thi stage . and we want them home . — would be exchang for hundr of palestinian prison in isra jail . and isra forc would be withdraw from popul center within the gaza strip . — with 600 truck carri aid into gaza everi singl day . humanitarian aid would be flow at a much greater level and gener the begin of a chang in atmospher and climat . so thi seem in some way like the temporari ceasefir in novemb , right ? women and children , vulner hostag , a ceas in hostil for six week . what about phase two ? well , here we get to the crucial part becaus dure phase one , the side are suppos to start negoti phase two . now , i ’ ll be straight with you . there are a number of detail to negoti to move from phase one to phase two . and phase two is suppos to culmin in all remain live hostag releas and exchang again for mani more palestinian prison from isra jail . thi would involv also the withdraw of isra troop from the gaza strip . and in hi speech , presid biden doe say that as long as hama live up to it commit , the temporari ceasefir would becom , in the word of the isra propos — — the cessat of hostil perman . ” — essenti mean the end of the war . so biden is actual talk about the end of the war . he ’ s say that out loud , which is not someth we ’ ve been hear from israel at all , at least publicli . on the contrari , in fact , our colleagu wrote a stori at the end of last week when one senior isra offici said the war would last until at least the end of the year . so thi is someth veri new . absolut . and then we get to phase three becaus there ’ s a third phase to thi plan . and that is move ahead alreadi to the day after the war , which ha been kept veri vagu by the isra up to now . and the phase that presid biden outlin wa essenti just for a major reconstruct plan for gaza . that ’ s the offer that ’ s now on the tabl and what we ’ ve been ask for . it ’ s what we need . so the presid is say that thi is a deal that should be accept , that meet the requir of both side , that can point to a path forward . and he make a coupl of point to bolster that — the peopl of israel should know they can make thi offer without ani further risk to their own secur becaus they ’ ve devast hama forc . — one of which is that in hi view , hama ha alreadi been suffici degrad and devast to the point where , as presid biden put it , hama is no longer capabl of carri out anoth octob 7 . in other word , that goal of total victori that netanyahu talk about , biden is actual say they ’ ve accomplish it . the isra have accomplish it . not realli , actual . he take on netanyahu on the total victori slogan — indefinit war in pursuit of an unidentifi notion of total victori will not bring israel and will not bring down — will onli bog down israel in gaza , drain the econom , militari , and human resourc and further israel ’ s isol in the world . — and say that total victori is a kind of nebul and unrealist goal that would basic mean indefinit war becaus what doe total victori mean ? you can ’ t kill everi last hama oper . and even if you did , presum there would be mani more palestinian who would come to replac them . and in a way , he ’ s use thi speech to go over the head of netanyahu and go straight to the isra peopl and present them with these term to in a way corner netanyahu , but also to put down the gauntlet to hama and say , here are the term . they sound veri like the term hama wa ask for and put hama equal on the spot to come back to the tabl even though israel is still fight in rafah . it ’ s time to begin thi new stage , for the hostag to come home , for israel to be secur , for the suffer to stop . it ’ s time for thi war to end , for the day after to begin . thank you veri much . so biden is essenti say here , listen . israel , you have won the war effect . hama is degrad . now it ’ s time to accept the ceasefir deal that you yourself have design . what wa the reaction insid israel ? the initi reaction took a while to come becaus presid biden made hi speech . and it land at about 8 : 30 in the even on friday israel time . and thi is the time where mani , mani famili are sit around their sabbath dinner tabl , as i wa with my famili and friend , not watch the news , not look at phone for the most part . observ jew have actual switch off for the sabbath and aren ’ t go to hear ani news until saturday night . and as the news did begin to trickl out , it realli shook israel up . and thi leav netanyahu in a great bind becaus for month , he ’ s realli been play for time and juggl compet interest and realli not have to make a decis one way or the other on what come next . we ’ ve been hear that rafah is realli the last stronghold of hama , and thi is someth the militari ha to do . but after that , there wa just a kind of void and no news on the hostag or a ceasefir or a deal on the horizon . and so when thi speech wa made , suddenli it shook up everyth . and netanyahu is suddenli face a veri crucial choic . we ’ ll be right back . so , isabel , you said that thi is a veri import moment for netanyahu , that now he realli is face a choic . what doe he do ? what doe he come out and say ? so hi offic actual put out a statement . and hi first respons wa that israel is stick to it object of the destruct of hama ’ s militari and govern capabl . and he said the actual propos put forward by israel would allow israel to uphold these principl . now , thi wa a slightli ambigu respons that you could pass in differ way . he wasn ’ t exactli deni that thi wa an isra propos . and inde , we quickli learn that , in fact , israel ’ s war cabinet had unanim vote on the gener outlin of what presid biden had present . he wasn ’ t deni it . but the one thing miss from that statement wa thi declar we ’ d been hear for month on end that the war wouldn ’ t end until there wa total victori . that had gone . so total victori had gone , which is a differ , which mean potenti the war goal have shift a littl bit . well , the way he articul it is talk about the degrad or dismantl of hama ’ s capabl as oppos to talk about the total elimin of hama as a movement . and then he follow up . hi offic put out anoth statement on saturday , also still dure the sabbath , which wa a littl stronger . he said under the propos , israel would insist on it condit be met , these same war object , befor a perman ceas fire is put in place and that ani suggest that israel would agre to that perman ceasefir befor the condit are met would be a non - starter . but again , it wa kind of condit and could be interpret in differ way . at what point doe one declar that the capabl have been dismantl or suffici degrad ? so it left a lot of room for maneuv . and so what is netanyahu up to here , isabel ? i think he ’ s tri to balanc all these compet side . he ’ s seem to be tri not to torpedo the chanc of thi deal but at the same time to be abl to hang on polit when he ha a veri seriou challeng loom within hi govern should thi deal go ahead . so tell me about that challeng . israel ’ s govern is form of a coalit of parti . netanyahu ’ s likud is the main parti . but it total reli for it major in parliament on it partner in the coalit . and they includ two ultra - orthodox parti and two far right parti . and the far right parti have both come out explicitli say that should thi deal as outlin by presid biden go ahead , they will not be parti to it . so netanyahu face thi real polit danger on hi right . that ’ s right . so there are the leader of these two right wing parti who he reli on for hi coalit govern . he reli on them for hi major in parliament . and the leader of those parti are itamar ben - gvir , who ’ s the nation secur minist , and bezalel smotrich , who is current the financ minist . now , neither of these parti nor their leader are sit in the much more tight and small war cabinet that actual overse and direct and make the decis on the cours of the war in gaza . they were seen as way too extrem to be part of that forum . that forum is much more reflect of the nation consensu . but these parti are part of the broader govern . and they have threaten not onli to oppos the deal as outlin by presid biden should it go ahead . but they have actual vow if it doe go ahead , they would withdraw their support to netanyahu and bring hi govern down . and if hi govern were to collaps as a result , he would then be face a new elect . now , he ha been tri to stave off the end of the war and the prospect of new elect ever sinc octob 7 becaus then he ’ s in danger of face that public reckon for the perceiv failur that the govern ’ s polici failur , the militari ’ s failur , the intellig failur lead up to the hama led attack of octob the 7 . but we realli might be get to crunch time when it come to hi polit lifelin here . so thi is a pretti dramat moment for netanyahu then , right ? i mean , he ’ s under tremend pressur from biden , hi biggest alli . biden ’ s basic ask him to choos between thi deal , which mean the end of the war , someth hi coalit partner , these hard right guy , realli don ’ t want , and hi own power essenti , right ? stay aliv polit or the end of the war and the hostag come home . that is a veri stark choic . absolut . and then there are other choic that he ha to weigh becaus israel ha been increasingli isol and under intern censur for it prosecut of the war in gaza . netanyahu himself is face the prospect of possibl arrest warrant be put out against him from the intern crimin court in the hagu . israel is in the dark on a genocid case in the intern court of justic in the hagu . so should he go ahead with thi deal , he ha been offer sweeten like an invit to address congress . and thi would in a way be a way of bring him back into the fold . so , isabel , say netanyahu approv thi propos . how like is it that the right wing , smotrich and ben - gvir , actual do leav the govern ? i mean , they would be give up power , too , no ? they would . and if we look at all the opinion poll be done in israel in the last few month , bezalel smotrich and hi religi zionism parti for one would bare scrape back into parliament in anoth elect . and therefor , there ’ s a lot at stake for him , too , and for itamar ben - gvir becaus if the next govern that ’ s form is not go to be a right wing and far right govern , he would find himself out of power , too . but , isabel , let ’ s say they do leav . what happen in that scenario ? well , the assumpt is that the govern would collaps . it would lose it major . and natur , the knesset would vote to dissolv itself and set a date for a new elect , which would have to come within five month . and dure that period , thi govern would turn into a caretak govern . now , usual a caretak govern that ’ s a transit one in that period befor elect isn ’ t suppos to make dramat decis for the countri . but be a caretak govern dure wartim , thi put israel in unchart polit territori . then theoret , if we were to ask could such a govern even approv a deal onc it had been negoti , even without the support of those far right parti , appar there would still be enough in favor to see it through . interest . so it seem like there are a lot of possibl for how thi could go . but it doe in a way reli on netanyahu decid what israel ’ s cours will be . and it seem like he probabl need to land on one of these option . what do you think he ’ s go to do ? well , it might not end up be black and white , take the deal or not take the deal . we might end up see someth in between becaus i think netanyahu , who is face huge public pressur to bring back those hostag who still are aliv , would definit want to move ahead with at least that first part of the deal that would see a six week temporari ceasefir in return for the most vulner hostag . and then you get into the much trickier part of that negoti for the next stage , which would involv essenti end the war . and it could be that we might see netanyahu want to proceed with thi deal but onli partial and then get to a point where it can ’ t go further . and netanyahu is probabl veri keenli awar of the american polit timet . there are skeptic here who say that by labor day , all the american attent is go to be focus on america ’ s own intern polit run up to the novemb elect and that netanyahu basic just ha to surviv anoth 90 day to get to that point , at which point the pressur subsid . so thi is a scenario in which he just basic run out the clock . he keep on that tightrop . that ’ s a possibl , absolut , and one that he would be veri adept at do if the past is anyth to go by . ok , so there are a number of way netanyahu could actual handl thi . how should we think about what biden ha realli accomplish here ? well , i think it ’ s hard to say that one speech is go to chang the cours or the outcom of thi war . but it certainli ha crystal the issu and brought them out into the light after month and month of murki that netanyahu wa abl to in a way hide behind and oper within . and i think now he ’ s in the spotlight . and assum that hama is will to accept and go along with thi negoti for thi propos , the isra public ’ s expect have certainli been risen now toward a deal . and all eye are now on netanyahu to see which way he will go . isabel , thank you . thank you so much . in an interview with “ time magazin ” publish on tuesday , biden wa ask whether netanyahu wa prolong the war in gaza in an effort to hold on to offic . biden said , quot , “ there is everi reason for peopl to draw that conclus . ” we ’ ll be right back . here ’ s what els you should know today . on tuesday , republican lawmak in arizona vote to put a ballot measur befor voter in novemb that would make unlaw cross the border from mexico a crime in the state . the move would put the border crisi directli onto the ballot in a key swing state , potenti fire up anti - immigr conserv voter . it is similar to a law pass in texa earlier thi year , current held up in court after it wa challeng by the biden administr . and the result of a major elect in india have been talli . and they are deepli disappoint for india ’ s prime minist narendra modi . modi appear to have secur a third consecut term in offic . howev , hi bjp parti did not deliv the landslid victori it had promis and even lost it major in parliament . now modi and the bjp must come to an agreement with other parti in order to form a coalit govern in india ’ s parliamentari system . today ’ s episod wa produc by will reid , eric krupk , and sydney harper . it wa edit by brendan klinkenberg and michael benoist , contain origin music by marion lozano , dian wong , dan powel , and rowan niemisto , and wa engin by chri wood . our theme music is by jim brunberg and ben landsverk of wonderli . that ’ s it for “ the daili . ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis . see you tomorrow . transcript thi transcript wa creat use speech recognit softwar . while it ha been review by human transcrib , it may contain error . pleas review the episod audio befor quot from thi transcript and email transcript @ nytim . com with ani question . hey , it ’ s michael . befor we start today , we want to invit you to someth realli special . the legendari tribeca festiv is start a brand new annual gala to celebr excel in audio . and for thi , the inaugur year , they ’ ve chosen to celebr “ the daili . ” we know that you , our incred audienc , are all over the world , but we ’ d like you to join us . the gala is in new york on june 9th at 5 : 00 pm . you can get all the detail and buy ticket at tribecafilm . com / thedaili . that ’ s tribecafilm . com / thedaili . i ’ m go to be there . so is sabrina , along with a bunch of us from the show . mo rocca is go to host it . so if you ’ re in the area or visit , we ’ d love to see you there . ok , on with today ’ s show . from “ the new york time , ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis . and thi is “ the daili . ” [ music play ] in an unexpect speech last week , presid biden reveal the detail of a secret propos intend to end the war in gaza . most surpris wa where that propos had come from . today , my colleagu isabel kershner explain biden ’ s gambit and the difficult choic it present for israel ’ s leader , benjamin netanyahu . it ’ s wednesday , june 5 . isabel , tell us about thi speech from presid biden last friday at the white hous . so last friday , presid biden made a speech . and it came at a pivot moment in the war becaus for week beforehand , the whole world had been focus on israel ’ s long delay invas of the citi of rafah , the southernmost citi in the gaza strip and also the citi that about a million displac palestinian had fled to to find refug from fight in other area of the gaza strip . so understand , there wa huge concern intern and particularli a lot of pressur come from the white hous for israel not to go into rafah . it wa just consid way too riski . but for the isra , they were say the last battalion of hama are there . mani hostag are there . and without take control of that area , the isra felt they wouldn ’ t have accomplish anyth . so in the end , they did begin to move into the eastern part of rafah . but then as the isra were oper in eastern rafah with their tank and ground troop , the isra on may 26 carri out a strike , an airstrik . thi wa an attack meant to target two hama oper . and they did , in fact , strike those two oper and kill them with what they said were the smallest missil that their jet could carri . unfortun , that strike then set off an absolut devast fire becaus the area the strike took place in is right by a camp of makeshift shack and tent where hundr or thousand of palestinian were shelter . thi fire rip through the tent and end up kill 45 civilian accord to the gazan health author . and it wa exactli the kind of disast that everybodi had fear if israel were to oper in thi crowd , southern , dusti border town . which presum put a lot more pressur on the biden white hous to do someth about thi war . that ’ s right . now , we know that the white hous , the biden administr , would veri much like to see thi war come to an end as soon as possibl . and then on friday — good afternoon . befor i begin my remark — — presid biden give a speech . and surprisingli — now to anoth issu . — thi speech when it turn to the israel - hama war wa not about rafah . in fact , it wa someth total differ and much bigger . israel ha now offer — israel is offer a comprehens new propos . it ’ s a road map to an endur ceasefir and the releas of all hostag . what presid biden describ as the outlin of an isra propos for a ceasefir truce and hostag releas deal with hama that would end the war . thi propos ha been transmit by qatar to hama . today , i want to lay out hi term for the american citizen and for the world . and , isabel , what did he mean exactli by the isra propos ? well , there ’ s been a lot of smoke and mirror around thi whole process of talk and negoti between israel and hama . and , in fact , the last time we saw a negoti actual result in a temporari ceas fire and a partial hostag releas wa at the end of last novemb . but , in fact , there had been thi on again , off again attempt at get negoti back on track over the last few week . and it soon came to light that thi wa the latest isra propos that wa appar present . and thi propos it turn out wa unanim approv as a basi for the negoti by israel ’ s war cabinet . and here is an american presid spell out thi previous undisclos isra posit on televis . absolut . and the isra public knew noth about thi . so what doe biden actual say ? what doe he say is in thi propos ? ok , well , what he say — thi new propos ha three phase . three . he present it as a deal in three phase , which is gener in line with all the previou plan of the last few month . and the first phase would involv a six week temporari ceasefir dure which a certain number of hostag — — includ women , the elderli , the wound — — the most vulner one — there are american hostag who would be releas at thi stage . and we want them home . — would be exchang for hundr of palestinian prison in isra jail . and isra forc would be withdraw from popul center within the gaza strip . — with 600 truck carri aid into gaza everi singl day . humanitarian aid would be flow at a much greater level and gener the begin of a chang in atmospher and climat . so thi seem in some way like the temporari ceasefir in novemb , right ? women and children , vulner hostag , a ceas in hostil for six week . what about phase two ? well , here we get to the crucial part becaus dure phase one , the side are suppos to start negoti phase two . now , i ’ ll be straight with you . there are a number of detail to negoti to move from phase one to phase two . and phase two is suppos to culmin in all remain live hostag releas and exchang again for mani more palestinian prison from isra jail . thi would involv also the withdraw of isra troop from the gaza strip . and in hi speech , presid biden doe say that as long as hama live up to it commit , the temporari ceasefir would becom , in the word of the isra propos — — the cessat of hostil perman . ” — essenti mean the end of the war . so biden is actual talk about the end of the war . he ’ s say that out loud , which is not someth we ’ ve been hear from israel at all , at least publicli . on the contrari , in fact , our colleagu wrote a stori at the end of last week when one senior isra offici said the war would last until at least the end of the year . so thi is someth veri new . absolut . and then we get to phase three becaus there ’ s a third phase to thi plan . and that is move ahead alreadi to the day after the war , which ha been kept veri vagu by the isra up to now . and the phase that presid biden outlin wa essenti just for a major reconstruct plan for gaza . that ’ s the offer that ’ s now on the tabl and what we ’ ve been ask for . it ’ s what we need . so the presid is say that thi is a deal that should be accept , that meet the requir of both side , that can point to a path forward . and he make a coupl of point to bolster that — the peopl of israel should know they can make thi offer without ani further risk to their own secur becaus they ’ ve devast hama forc . — one of which is that in hi view , hama ha alreadi been suffici degrad and devast to the point where , as presid biden put it , hama is no longer capabl of carri out anoth octob 7 . in other word , that goal of total victori that netanyahu talk about , biden is actual say they ’ ve accomplish it . the isra have accomplish it . not realli , actual . he take on netanyahu on the total victori slogan — indefinit war in pursuit of an unidentifi notion of total victori will not bring israel and will not bring down — will onli bog down israel in gaza , drain the econom , militari , and human resourc and further israel ’ s isol in the world . — and say that total victori is a kind of nebul and unrealist goal that would basic mean indefinit war becaus what doe total victori mean ? you can ’ t kill everi last hama oper . and even if you did , presum there would be mani more palestinian who would come to replac them . and in a way , he ’ s use thi speech to go over the head of netanyahu and go straight to the isra peopl and present them with these term to in a way corner netanyahu , but also to put down the gauntlet to hama and say , here are the term . they sound veri like the term hama wa ask for and put hama equal on the spot to come back to the tabl even though israel is still fight in rafah . it ’ s time to begin thi new stage , for the hostag to come home , for israel to be secur , for the suffer to stop . it ’ s time for thi war to end , for the day after to begin . thank you veri much . so biden is essenti say here , listen . israel , you have won the war effect . hama is degrad . now it ’ s time to accept the ceasefir deal that you yourself have design . what wa the reaction insid israel ? the initi reaction took a while to come becaus presid biden made hi speech . and it land at about 8 : 30 in the even on friday israel time . and thi is the time where mani , mani famili are sit around their sabbath dinner tabl , as i wa with my famili and friend , not watch the news , not look at phone for the most part . observ jew have actual switch off for the sabbath and aren ’ t go to hear ani news until saturday night . and as the news did begin to trickl out , it realli shook israel up . and thi leav netanyahu in a great bind becaus for month , he ’ s realli been play for time and juggl compet interest and realli not have to make a decis one way or the other on what come next . we ’ ve been hear that rafah is realli the last stronghold of hama , and thi is someth the militari ha to do . but after that , there wa just a kind of void and no news on the hostag or a ceasefir or a deal on the horizon . and so when thi speech wa made , suddenli it shook up everyth . and netanyahu is suddenli face a veri crucial choic . we ’ ll be right back . so , isabel , you said that thi is a veri import moment for netanyahu , that now he realli is face a choic . what doe he do ? what doe he come out and say ? so hi offic actual put out a statement . and hi first respons wa that israel is stick to it object of the destruct of hama ’ s militari and govern capabl . and he said the actual propos put forward by israel would allow israel to uphold these principl . now , thi wa a sligh