advertis support by the leader of collegi school in manhattan step down after an intern report found “ problem of religi and cultur bia . ” bykatherin rosman the leader of one of new york ’ s most elit school ha step down after a damn intern audit found “ disquiet problem of religi and cultur bia ” at the school . david louri , who becam the leader of the all - boy collegi school in manhattan justfour year ago , announc on monday that he and the board had agre he would leav hi post as head of school . “ after four year fill with share success alongsid challeng that requir difficult and at time divis decis , we agre that a new head of school is what is best for the boy and the school commun , ” mr . louri said in an email to the school commun . the collegi report , issu in may and review by the new york time , wa commiss by the school to investig parent ’ concern about antisemit and islamophobia . nearli two week later , a gender discrimin lawsuit wa file against collegi and mr . louri by one of the school ’ s dean , who claim that mr . louri had refer to the report as “ a joke ” and a “ power play by jewish famili . ” mr . louri andjonathan youngwood , the presid of the school ’ s board of truste , did not immedi respond to request for comment . collegi is among numer privat school across new york citi that have experienc intens disagr over how administr and faculti member have address the israel - hama war . privat - school parent , teacher , administr and student have been discuss — and in some case , argu over — the appropri way for school to address issu relat to the war both in the classroom and in broader academ and commun discours . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis