israel - hamaswar advertis a video of munit debri film at the school complex in central gaza where thousand of palestinian were shelter show remnant of a gbu - 39 , a bomb that is design and manufactur by boe . bychristiaan triebertandneil collier at least one bomb use in the isra strike that kill dozen of peopl , includ women and children , in a unit nation school build on thursday appear to have been made in the unit state , accord to a weapon expert and video review by the new york time . the school , locat in nuseirat , in central gaza , wa beingus as a shelter for thousand of displac palestinian . the isra militari said it had target classroom that were occupi by palestinian milit , though it did not provid evid for thi claim . a video of munit debri , filmedbi the palestinian journalist emad abu shawiesh , show remnant of a gbu - 39 bomb , which is design and manufactur by boe . the use of thi weapon in the strike wasfirst report by cnn . the footag wa upload to instagram shortli after 4 a . m . in gaza on thursday , about two and a half hour after the strike wasreportedon telegram , a messag app . the time , use detail seen in video , confirm the weapon debri wa film at the u . n . school . trevor ball , a former u . s . armi explos ordnanc dispos technician , identifiedth part of the weapon seen in the footag as the nose of a gbu - 39 . “ thi distinct nose is uniqu to the gbu - 39 munit seri , and , due to it solid construct , it can surviv the blast intact , ” he said . the hole visibl across sever floor of the u . n . compound also suggest the use of a smaller precis - guid munit like the gbu - 39 , mr . ball ad . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis