israel - hamaswar advertis the vice presid expect to discuss the urgenc of a hostag deal and get food and suppli to palestinian civilian with a member of netanyahu ’ s war cabinet . byerica l . greenandaaron boxerman vice presid kamala harri is schedul to meet with benni gantz , a member of the isra war cabinet , in washington on monday , accord to a white hous offici and a spokesman for mr . gantz . dure the meet with mr . gantz , ms . harri is expect to discuss the urgenc of secur a hostag deal , which would allow for a temporari ceas - fire , and the need to significantli increas aid into gaza , accord to the white hous offici , who provid detail on the condit of anonym . the meet , which is schedul to take place at the white hous , come as the biden administr face pressur to help secur a temporari ceas - fire and hostag deal in the israel - hama war and to more forc address the escal humanitarian catastroph in gaza . on saturday , anoth senior administr offici , who spoke on the condit of anonym to discuss sensit diplomat effort , told report that negoti were continu , and that israel had “ more or less accept ” a framework for the deal and that the ball wa now in hama ’ s court . the propos could lead to a six - week paus in the fight , as well as the releas of some of the hostag held in gaza and palestinian prison in israel . presid biden had express hope that a deal could be reach by monday as u . s . offici said they were work to secur a deal by the start of ramadan , the muslim holi month that will start thi year around march 10 . the unit state also deliv it firstairdrop of food into gaza on saturdayamid warn that the besieg enclavewa on the brink of famin . israel ha impos tight restrict on the entri of humanitarian aid , even as intern relief organ have suspend some convoy becaus of rise anarchi and the loot of some aid truck insid gaza . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis