israel - hamaswar advertis the disclosur by the militari wa like to add pressur on prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s govern to move forward with a ceas - fire deal . byanushka patil the isra militari said on monday that four more hostag who were abduct in the hama - led oct . 7 attack had die month ago in gaza , a disclosur that wa like to add pressur on prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s govern to move forward with a ceas - fire deal . rear adm . daniel hagari , spokesman for the isra militari , said at a news brief on monday that the four hostag were believ to have been kill togeth “ sever month ago ” near khan youni , in southern gaza , while isra forc were oper in the area . the militari identifi the men as haim perri , yoram metzger , amiram cooper and nadav popplewel . admir hagari said the decis to announc the hostag ’ death on monday wa base on “ addit intellig , which had been verifi recent , make it possibl to determin today that the four are no longer aliv , ” ad that he knew “ difficult question ” would aris about the circumst of their death . the famili of the four had been notifi that their bodi were be held by hama , and the circumst of their death were “ still under examin , ” the isra militari said . the hostag famili forum , a support group , releas a statement demand that the isra govern immedi negoti a deal for the remain hostag to be freed . it said the four who were declar dead on monday were aliv when they were kidnap from kibbutz nirim and kibbutz nir oz , and that there had been “ sign of life ” in the interim period . “ their murder in captiv is a mark of disgrac and a sad reflect on the signific of delay previou deal , ” the group said . the pressur on mr . netanyahu to end the fight in gaza ha grown sinc last week , when presid biden publicli endors what he said wa a three - phase ceas - fire propos put forward by israel . but mr . netanyahu ’ s far - right polit alli havethreaten to collaps hi governmentif israel make ani agreement that end the war without elimin hama . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis