israel - hamaswar advertis transcript in the occupi west bank , palestinian live in the shadow of the ongo war in gaza . for them , thi ha meant increas raid and arrest , tighten secur restrict , settler violenc and econom turmoil . we spent time with two palestinian whose live and livelihood are be reshap by the war and who worri that some of these chang may be long last . 29 - year - old taxi driver and tour guid laith al - muti now wait all day here at one of the isra - control checkpoint into bethlehem . but these day , bare ani visitor come through . thirteen mile away in the tel rumeida area of hebron , wijdan ziadeh ’ s life is also at a standstil . the site of an isra settlement , palestinian in the area say their movement , limit befor the war , ha felt even more restrict sinc oct . 7 . control over secur in hebron is divid into two zone . h1 is manag by the palestinian author and h2 , where ziadeh live , is manag by the isra militari . the isra militari told the time that secur measur have increas in the west bank as part of a respons to terrorist oper , includ hama , and that their forc are in tel rumeida to help ensur the safeti of all resid . but ziadeh live in fear of scene of settler aggress like thi one captur by a nearbi palestinian resid . ziadeh say sinc the war , her settler neighbor have becom even more aggress toward her and her two son . throughout the west bank , incid of settler violenc against palestinian jump in the aftermath of oct . 7 , accord to the u . n . , who have record nearli 950 attack as of june 2024 . palestinian in the area say that the isra militari are there to protect the settler and that settler violenc against palestinian larg goe unpunish , a decad - long pattern detail in a recent time investig . back in bethlehem , laith also fear for the futur . site he use to frequent with tourist , like the church of the nativ , now sit empti . al - muti and ziadeh say they don ’ t know what ’ s next for them or for other in the west bank . bysarah kerr as the war in gaza enter it eighth month , palestinian live under isra occup in the west bank continu to faceoner restrict , econom difficulti and an increas militari presenc — chang that some worri may becom the new normal . throughout the west bank , daili life — restrict befor oct . 7 — ha been further complic by myriad factor . these includ regular raid and arrest by isra forc , embolden settler and regul that have hamper the economi , such as the cancel of permit to work in israel and an increas in intern checkpoint and roadblock , complic movement throughout the territori . the isra militari said there had been a “ signific increas ” in terrorist attack in the west bank sinc the begin of the war and told the new york time that arrest of suspect “ terrorist oper , ” as well as the strateg placement of secur forc , were necessari “ to improv the safeti of all resid of the sector . ” we spent time with two palestinian in the west bank to learn how they have been affect by these chang . in bethlehem , a citi whose economi islarg depend on tourism , few are arriv to visit site like the church of the nativ , the suppos birthplac of jesu . laith al - muti , 29 , a local tour guid and taxi driver , spend hi day wait at the main checkpoint from jerusalem into bethlehem , hope to attract local fare . al - muti and other driver said they were make a fraction of what they earn befor the war . “ i don ’ t know for how long peopl will have energi , ” said al - muti . “ i might be make 20 or 40 shekel , ( roughli $ 5 - $ 11 ) work in my taxi , but some peopl haven ’ t earn one shekel in seven month . ” thirteen mile away in the tel rumeida area of hebron , widjan ziadeh , 56 , a widow , and her son live in fear . hebron is divid into two zone : h1 , where secur is control by the palestinian author , and h2 , where secur is control by the isra militari . tel rumeida , locat in h2 , is surround by isra - run checkpoint . sinc the war , palestinian in the area said they had been subject to increas restrict and difficulti . tel rumeida , the site of an isra settlement , ha some who are violent and aggress , accord to palestinian in the area , and tension have run high for decad . ziadeh said her son fari , 20 , had nearli lost all vision in one eye follow a settler attack in 2022 , but the famili never file a crimin complaint to the isra author becaus oflimit expect of justic . for now , ziadeh is determin to stay and keep her hous from be taken over by settler . “ we won ’ t leav . thi is our land and we ’ ll stay here , ” she said . “ we ’ ll live and die in suffer . ” sarah kerri a time senior video journalist cover news and investig . more about sarah kerr advertis