israel - hamaswar advertis the intern court of justic rule deepen israel ’ s intern isol , but the court ha no enforc power . bygaya gupta the intern court of justic on friday rule that israel must immedi halt it militari offens in the southern gaza citi of rafah , deal anoth blow to the countri as it face increas intern isol . the court ha no mean of enforc it order , and israel said the languag of the rule left some room for interpret . hard - line politician in israel immedi vow that israel would not compli . still , the 13 - 2 rule put more pressur on the netanyahu govern over the conduct of the war . gazan author say at least 35 , 000 peopl have been kill , without distinguish between combat and civilian , and hundr of thousand have been forc to flee repeatedli to avoid the isra bombard , which ha devast most of the enclav . “ the court consid that in conform with oblig under the genocid convent , israel must immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part , ” the court ’ s presid , nawaf salam , said in read the rule . the intern court of justic rule on friday that israel must immedi halt it militari offens in the southern gaza citi of rafah , deal anoth blow to the countri as it face increas intern isol . the rule is the latest in a seri of rebuk of israel over the conduct of it war against hama in the gaza strip . may 5 rafah rafah cross 1 mile may 22 gaza strip area of imag area of most damag rafah cross sourc : satellit imageri from planet lab we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis