israel - hamaswar advertis in a white hous meet on monday afternoon with benni gantz , a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , the vice presid also focus on the need for a deal to free hostag . bymichael d . shear , zolan kanno - youngsanderica l . green report from washington vice presid kamala harri , who ha emerg as one of the lead voic for palestinian in close - door meet , press for a paus in fight in gaza with a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , benni gantz , at the white hous on monday afternoon , accord to the white hous . the vice presid emphas the urgenc of secur a hostag deal and reduc the humanitarian crisi that ha unfold alongsid israel ’ s war against hama in respons to attack on oct . 7 . she prais israel ’ s “ construct approach ” to seek a six - week ceas - fire but urg the govern to do more to allow desper need humanitarian aid to reach those in need in gaza . “ the vice presid express her deep concern about the humanitarian condit in gaza and the recent horrif tragedi around an aid convoy in northern gaza , ” a white hous descript of the meet said . it ad that “ she urg israel to take addit measur in cooper with the unit state and intern partner to increas the flow of humanitarian assist into gaza . ” the meet came as the unit state said it would continueairdrop of foodthat began on saturday in an effort to confront what humanitarian group say is a crisi for the more than one million displac palestinian in rafah , in southern gaza , as israel prepar to deploy ground forc there . although ms . harri ha not stray too far from presid biden ’ s war messag , in a speech on sunday she took a tougher tone in demand an “ immedi ceas - fire . ” still , she direct her remark at hama , not israel ’ s leadership , and repeat that she and the presid remain “ unwav in our commit to israel ’ s secur . ” in meet at the white hous , she ha been forc in urg the administr not to dismiss the anger from palestinian american and other in the unit state , who contend that mr . biden ha not done enough to prevent the death of ten of thousand of civilian in gaza , accord to four peopl familiar with the matter . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis