israel - hamaswar advertis support by “ i saw peopl fall to the ground after be shot , ” said one wit , “ and other simpli took the food item that were with them and continu run for their live . ” byraja abdulrahim , matthew mpoke bigg , adam rasgonandmichael levenson they went out by the thousand , camp overnight along a coastal road in the cold gaza night , huddl togeth by small fire , wait for suppli to come so they could feed their famili . what they encount wa death and injuri by the hundr , accord to wit and a doctor who treat the wound , as isra forc open fire toward desper palestinian who surg forward when aid truck final arriv befor dawn on thursday . “ i saw thing i never , ever thought i would see , ” said moham al - sholi , who had camp out overnight for a chanc to get food for hi famili . “ i saw peopl fall to the ground after be shot , and other simpli took the food item that were with them and continu run for their live . ” amid the chao and bloodsh , some peopl were run over by the aid truck , he said . on friday , presid biden said the unit state would begin airdrop aid to gaza to help reliev the suffer there , as european leader condemn israel for the death of score of hungri palestinian who were kill as they surround the aid convoy . the gazan health author have said that isra troop kill more than 100 peopl and wound 700 other in a “ massacr ” as the convoy roll along a dark road , a version of event that israel disput . an isra militari spokesman , rear adm . daniel hagari , said on thursday that isra soldier had been tri to secur the convoy and fire “ when the mob move in a manner that endang them . ” but he said the soldier had not fire on peopl seek aid . the militari ha said that most of the peopl die in a stamped and that some were run over by the truck in gaza citi . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis