israel - hamaswar advertis intellig collect and analysi team from the u . s . and the u . k . have been in israel throughout the war . byjulian e . barn , ronen bergmanandmichael d . shear the u . s . provid intellig on the hostag befor israel ’ s success rescu oper saturday , accord to american and isra offici brief on the assist . a team of american hostag recoveri offici station in israel assist the isra militari ’ s effort to rescu the four captiv by provid intellig and other logist support , one american offici said , speak without attribut to discuss the sensit oper . intellig collect and analysi team from the unit state and britain have been in israel throughout the war , assist isra intellig in collect and analyz inform relat to the hostag , some of them citizen of both countri , accord to a senior isra defens offici familiar with the effort to locat and rescu the hostag . two isra intellig offici said the american militari offici in israel provid some of the intellig about the hostag rescu saturday . speak in pari after meet with emmanuel macron of franc , presid biden said he welcom “ the safe rescu of four hostag that were return to their famili in israel . ” “ we won ’ t stop work until all the hostag come home and a ceas - fire is reach , ” he ad , “ and it ’ s essenti . ” the pentagon and the c . i . a . have been provid inform collect from drone flight over gaza , commun intercept and other sourc about the potenti locat of hostag . while israel ha it own intellig , the unit state and britain have been abl to provid intellig from the air and cyberspac that israel can not collect on it own , the isra offici said . jake sullivan , the nation secur advis , celebr the rescu , and refer glancingli at the american assist . “ the unit state is support all effort to secur the releas of hostag still held by hama , includ american citizen , ” mr . sullivan said in a statement . “ thi includ through ongo negoti or other mean . ” mr . sullivan ad that the ceas - fire propos current be discuss by negoti from hama , israel , egypt , qatar and the unit state would be the way to bring home the remain hostag . “ the hostag releas and ceas - fire deal that is now on the tabl would secur the releas of all the remain hostag togeth with secur assur for israel and relief for the innoc civilian in gaza , ” he said . american offici have said their intellig support for israel is focus on the locat of hostag and inform about hama ’ s top leadership . in larg measur thi is becaus american offici believ the best way to persuad israel to end the war is to get back it hostag and captur or kill top hama leader . the isra offici said neither the american nor british team were involv in the plan or execut of the militari oper to rescu the hostag . isra , expert in hostag rescu , would have requir littl support in the tactic plan . but the american and isra offici said the outsid intellig did provid ad valu . julian e . barnescov the u . s . intellig agenc and intern secur matter for the time . he ha written about secur issu for more than two decad . more about julian e . barn ronen bergmani a staff writer for the new york time magazin , base in tel aviv . hi latest book is “ rise and kill first : the secret histori of israel ’ s target assassin , ” publish by random hous . more about ronen bergman michael d . sheari a white hous correspond for the new york time , cover presid biden and hi administr . he ha report on polit for more than 30 year . more about michael d . shear advertis