israel - hamaswar advertis support by despit fierc critic , israel insist it must take control of rafah and the border with egypt to prevent futur arm smuggl . bysteven erlang , isabel kershnerandnatan odenheim report from jerusalem despit an intern court order to stop it assault on rafah , israel say it will continu it oper , tri to walk a line between not anger it american alli too much while tri to achiev strateg aim that it consid too import to abandon . for now , after mani week of admonit from the white hous , both the isra and the american are character thi as a “ limit oper , ” allow the isra to proceed , though more slowli and cautious than they had in other part of gaza . but as the fight push mass of panick civilian toward area near the sea with inadequ hous or medic aid , and the close of the rafah border cross dim hope for speedi deliveri of humanitarian aid , israel ’ s critic abroad condemn the toll on civilian and are unconvinc by what the isra have call restraint . on friday , the intern court of justiceord israel to immedi halt it offens in rafah , say it endang the civilian popul there , but did not call for a complet ceas - fire . israel say it will not halt it militari oper . for israel , take rafah and the border would effect complet the reconquest of gaza and could mean a move to a differ phase of lower - intens raid . rafah ha in and under it the last four rel organ hama battalion , a major tunnel infrastructur and rocket launcher , the isra say . more import , israel want to tri to seal the border with egypt to reduc the smuggl of weapon for the futur . “ the airstrik are continu and intens , and the smell of smoke doesn ’ t leav the air , ” said mohammad al - masri , 31 , an account who ha been shelter in a tent in rafah for month . “ at night , they advanc a few meter at a time , and the peopl flee immedi . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis