advertis support by demonstr had taken over the offic at dawn and demand that stanford univers truste vote on divest from compani said to support israel ’ s militari . byheath knight report from stanford univers polic offic arrest 13 peopl on wednesday after pro - palestinian protest barricad themselv in the offic of the presid of stanford univers and demand that administr meet sever demand , includ a vote by the univers truste on whether to divest from compani that are said to support israel ' s militari . the administr offic , locat in build 10 , were clear within about three hour , accord to dee mostofi , a campu spokeswoman , who said that there wa “ extens damag . ” sever sandston wall and pillar on the exterior of build on the univers ’ s histor main quad were mark with graffiti that critic the polic , stanford , israel and the unit state . protest had enter the build around 5 : 30 a . m . on wednesday , and univers polic offic arriv at the scene after they were alert of the occup , accord to ms . mostofi . the build hous the offic of the univers ’ s presid , richard saller , and provost , jenni martinez , among other . one offic wa injur dure the arrest , ms . mostofi said , ad that ani student who were arrest will be suspend and those who are senior will not be allow to graduat . “ we are appal that our student chose to take thi action , and we will work with law enforc to ensur that they face the full consequ allow by law , ” ms . mostofi said in a statement . wednesday is the final day of class for the spring quarter at stanford . a secur guard station on the main quad warn student who were bicycl or walk to their last class of the academ year that they would see disturb graffiti . the spray - paint slogan includ “ pig tast best dead ” and “ death 2 israehel . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis