advertis support by under the bill , new york nonprofit that provid financi support to israel ’ s militari or settlement could be su for at least $ 1 million and lose their tax - exempt statu . bykaren zraick a long - shot effort by left - lean new york state lawmak to curtail financi support for isra settlement ha drawn a big - name backer — but she doesn ’ t have a vote in albani . repres alexandria ocasio - cortez , who rare wade into state polit , publicli back a bill on monday that could strip new york nonprofit of their tax - exempt statu if their fund are use to support israel ’ s militari and settlement activ . her involv underscor the extent to which the war in gaza and israel ’ s treatment of palestinian more broadli have anim the left flank of the democrat parti as a pivot elect approach . “ it is more import now than ever to hold the netanyahu govern account for endors and , in fact , support some of thi settler violenc that prevent a last peac , ” ms . ocasio - cortez said at a news confer . “ thi bill will make sure that the ongo atroc that we see happen in gaza and the west bank , as well as the ongo enabl of arm militia to terror palestinian in the west bank , do not benefit from new york state charit tax exempt . ” assemblyman zohran mamdani and state senat jabari brisport introduc the bill , call the “ not on our dime ” act , month befor the oct . 7 attack , say it wa an effort to prevent tax - exempt donat from subsid violenc by isra settler in the west bank . it wa wide critic by albani lawmak and declar a “ nonstart . ” now it sponsor say they plan to revis the bill to prohibit “ aid and abet ” the resettl of the gaza strip or provid “ unauthor support ” for isra militari activ that violat intern law . “ there ’ s a newfound conscious in our countri with regard to the urgenc of palestinian human right , and we have to propos and advoc for legisl that reflect public sentiment , ” mr . mamdani said in a recent interview , refer to some of israel ’ s violenc toward peopl in gaza and the west bank as “ war crime . ” the lawmak announc the relaunch of the bill at an event at ms . ocasio - cortez ’ s bronx district offic on monday morn , surround by left - lean elect offici from the citi council and state legislatur . ask whi she had chosen to endors a state - level bill , ms . ocasio - cortez said that it wa “ polit peril ” to do so and that she had want to support her colleagu . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis