advertis support by some jewish student say they ’ ve been drop by old roommat and soror sister and ostrac from campu club and team becaus of their view — which are sometim assum . byjoseph bernstein last fall , a barnard colleg sophomor name sophi fisher reach out to her freshman year roommat to catch up over coffe . her old friend ’ s respons wa tepid , and ms . fisher wonder whi . the two had been close enough that the roommat had come to the bar mitzvah of ms . fisher ’ s brother . sever month later , the reason becam clear . over instagram , ms . fisher ’ s roommat wrote to her that they couldn ’ t be friend anymor becaus she had been post in support of israel sinc the hama attack of oct . 7 . in other word , she wa a zionist . ms . fisher thought she had been care to avoid inflammatori post , but the roommat , ms . fisher said , accus her of racism . then she block ms . fisher . around the same time , ms . fisher notic someth els strang . her “ big ” — a mentor in her soror — had stop talk to her . when they were in the same room , ms . fisher said , the big wouldn ’ t make eye contact with her . ms . fisher said that her big often post about student for justic in palestin , the campu group that columbia had suspend in novemb for violat campu polici . ms . fisher remain in the soror , but the two haven ’ t spoken in month . “ she wa suppos to be my big sister , ” she said . thi spring , colleg campus becam the main stage for the american protest movement against israel ’ s seven - month - old war in gaza . in april and may , dozen of pro - palestinian encamp sprang up at univers around the countri , as student call for institut divest from ( and , at time , for the total dismantl of ) israel . the protest have been character by heat rhetor around the term “ zionist , ” a word that typic refer to peopl who believ jew have a right to a state in their ancestr homeland in present - day israel ( regardless of how they may feel about the war in gaza ) . mani palestinian and those who support them associ the word with mass displac dure the 1948 war trigger by the creation of israel , as well as the kill over the past month of thousand of civilian and the decim of gaza . throughchant , statementsand sometimesphys obstruct , mani protest have made clear they don ’ t want to share space with peopl they consid zionist — and inde , that they find the ideolog unaccept . at the univers of california , lo angel , pro - palestinian studentsblock peer who identifi themselv as zionistsfrom part of campu . given that alarg majorityof american jew say care about israel is an import part of their jewish ident , these instanc of exclus have led to a debat over whether the encamp are de facto antisemit . ( complic matter , some of the most outspoken anti - zionist protest are jewish . ) we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis