israel - hamaswar advertis support by the news wa met with jubil in israel , where tension over the hostag ’ safeti have been rise in recent month . byaaron boxerman , raja abdulrahimandstev lohr isra soldier and special oper polic rescu four hostag from gaza on saturday amid a heavi air and ground assault and flew them back to israel by helicopt to be reunit with their famili . the news wa met with jubil in israel , where anxieti over the fate of the roughli 120 remain captiv have been rise after eight month of war . resid in the town of nuseirat , where the hostag were be held , report intens bombard dure the rescu oper . khalil al - daqran , an offici at a hospit in the citi , told report that score of palestinian had been kill and that the hospit ’ s ward and corridor were pack with the wound . rear adm . daniel hagari , the isra militari spokesman , told report the rescu mission took place around 11 a . m . saturday , when forc locat the four hostag in two separ build where they were be held by hama milit . he said the isra forc came under fire but manag to extract the hostag in two helicopt . one special forc polic offic die . the freed hostag — noa argamani , 26 , almog meir jan , 22 , andrey kozlov , 27 , and shlomi ziv , 41 — were kidnap by palestinian milit from the nova music festiv dure the hama - led attack on oct . 7 , when about 1 , 200 peopl were kill in israel and 250 taken hostag , israel say . all four were in good medic condit and were transfer to a hospit in israel for further examin , the isra author said in a statement . the fate of the hostag ha been a sourc of intens polit pressur on the isra prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , amid the broader critic that hi govern , for it own reason , is in no hurri to wind down the conflict or to address the issu of who should govern gaza after the war . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis