advertis the action came as the univers chancellor testifi befor congress . the univers said that it wa not awar of the polic make ani arrest . transcript whose univers ? our univers ! whose univers ? our univers ! byjonathan wolf , grace whitakerandnichola bogel - burrough jonathan wolf and grace whitak report from lo angel , and nichola bogel - burrough from new york . pro - palestinian demonstr at the univers of california , lo angel , briefli form a new encamp and then took over a campu build on thursday befor polic offic in riot gear move in to disband the effort . the protest , which drew hundr of peopl , came on the same day that the u . c . l . a . chancellorwa grill in a hear on capitol hillov hi handl of a similar encamp last month . by the afternoon , about 70 protest had enter dodd hall , an academ build , seal off door with comput cabl and jacket . one protest , speak into a megaphon , ask anyon not affili with u . c . l . a . to leav and acknowledg the ad hoc natur of the protest : “ we ’ re build thi plane as we fli it . ” but just a few hour after the protest had gotten insid , polic offic in riot gear barg in and clear the build — a contrast to what republican lawmak critic as a slow respons to the demonstr in late april . protest had initi set up a small encamp earlier on thursday in an area known as the kerckhoff patio , but quickli abandon it after offic wear helmet and carri baton move in . the protest then fled to an area by murphi hall , amass about 300 peopl at one point , and then some eventu move into dodd hall . in recent week , student activist have been call on the univers to divest from compani that they view as enabl israel ’ s war in gaza . their demonstr in april wa one of the most high - profil campu protest thi year . more than 200 protest were arrest after a group of pro - israel counterprotest attack the encamp . none of the counterprotest have been apprehend . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis