israel - hamaswar advertis u . s . air forc cargo plane drop 36 , 800 readi - to - eat meal , in a joint oper with the jordanian air forc , but a pentagon spokesman said were no plan to put u . s . forc on the ground . byhelen cooper the unit state made a second round of airdrop of humanitarian aid into the gaza strip on tuesday , as the biden administr continu it effort to prevent a greater humanitarian disast in the palestinian territori . u . s . air forc cargo plane drop 36 , 800 readi - to - eat meal , in a joint oper with the jordanian air forc , “ to provid essenti relief to civilian affect by the ongo conflict , ” u . s . central command said in a statement on tuesday . it said that armi troop train in aerial deliveri were part of the airdrop , and that it wa plan more such mission . howev , the pentagon said on tuesday that the unit state did not intend to send it troop into gaza to strengthen the aid distribut process . “ at thi time there are no plan to put u . s . forc on the ground in gaza , ” maj . gen . patrick ryder , a pentagon spokesman , said at a news confer . some aid expert and humanitarian group have critic the american airdrop as insuffici and larg symbol , given the scale of the hunger problem face gaza after five month of war . cargo plane can onli move a fraction of the food a convoy of truck can deliv , expert say , and a better solut would be for the unit state to persuad israel to open more border cross and speed up inspect . the oper on tuesday follow a first round of airdrop on saturday , two day aftermor than 100 palestinian were killeda isra forc open fire around a convoy of aid truck in northern gaza . doctor at gaza hospit said most of the casualti were from gunfir . the isra militari said most of the victim were trampl as they tri to seiz the cargo , although isra offici acknowledg that troop had fire on some peopl who they said had threaten them . after the convoy kill , presid biden said the unit state would find new way to get aid to palestinian in desper need becaus of israel ’ s five - month militari campaign to destroy hama . onli atrickl of aidha been reach northern gaza via land , but aid group have critic airdrop asineffect . the amount of aid deliv by a french plane in anairdroplast week wa much less than a singl truckload . although mr . biden ha implor israel , which ha larg seal it border with gaza , to clear the way for more aid deliveri , the demand for food , water and medicin there remain huge . those condit have put mr . biden under polit pressur to do more to help the palestinian , even as the unit state suppli israel with militari hardwar . despit hi frustrat with israel ’ s polit leadership , mr . biden ha not threaten to put limit on american militari aid to the countri . helen cooperi a pentagon correspond . she wa previous an editor , diplomat correspond and white hous correspond . more about helen cooper advertis