franc ’ s parliamentaryelect advertis support by the friendship between franc and the u . s . endur . but tension have mount over the war in gaza and ukrain , and how europ can step out of america ’ s shadow . byrog cohenandpet baker report from normandi , franc in the sunlight of normandi , befor the surviv american veteran who eight decad ago help turn the tide of the war against hitler , presid emmanuel macron of franc spoke thi past week of the “ bond of blood shed for liberti ” that tie hi countri to the unit state . it is a bond that goe all the way back to the found of the unit state in 1776 and the decis french support for american independ against the british . tempestu , often strain as franc bristl at american postwar leadership in europ , the tie between pari and washington are nonetheless resili . presid biden ’ s five - day stay in franc , an except long visit for an american presid , especi in an elect year , is a power testament to that friendship . but it illustr it doubl - edg natur . french gratitud for american sacrific as ever vie uneasili with gaullist restiv over ani hint of subservi . those compet strand will form the backdrop of a lavish state dinner at the élysé palac on saturday , when mr . macron will reciproc the state visit that mr . bidenhost for him at the white housein decemb 2022 , the first of hi administr . the toast and bonhomi will not fulli mask the tension between washington and pari — over the war in gaza , how best to support ukrain and the unpredict way mr . macron tri to assert franc ’ s independ from the unit state . no recent french presid ha been as insist as mr . macron in declar europ ’ s need for “ strateg autonomi ” and insist that it “ should never be a vassal of the unit state . ” yet he ha stood shoulder to shoulder with mr . biden in see ukrain ’ s fight for freedom against russia as no less than a battl for european liberti , an extens of the fight for freedom that led alli forc to scale the cliff of the point du hoc in 1944 . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis