israel - hamaswar advertis support by a pro - palestinian group slash and spray - paint a centuri - old portrait of the author of the balfour declar at the univers of cambridg in england . bymarc traci a pro - palestinian group slash and spray - painteda centuri - old portrait of arthur jame balfourat the univers of cambridg on friday , defac a paint of the british offici whose pledg of support in 1917 for “ the establish in palestin of a nation home for the jewish peopl ” help pave the way to israel ’ s found three decad later . the group , palestin action , said in a statementthat the destruct of the portrait in triniti colleg , cambridg , wa intend to call attent to “ the bloodsh of the palestinian peopl sinc the balfour declar wa issu , ” particularli in light of the current conflict in gaza . a spokeswoman for triniti , whose alumni includ king charl iii as well as balfour himself , said in a statement on friday that the colleg “ regret the damag caus to a portrait of arthur jame balfour dure public open hour ” and that it had notifi the polic . a cambridg polic statement said offic were on the scene to investig a report of “ crimin damag . ” palestin action post a video of a protest first spray the portrait , paint in 1914 by philip alexiu de lászló , with red paint and then slash it with a sharp object . the group ’ s statement said balfour had given away the homeland of the palestinian — “ a land that wasn ’ t hi to give away ” — touch off what it describ as decad of oppress . sinc oct . 7 , when hama milit invad southern israelkil approxim 1 , 200 peopleand abduct 240 other , isra bomb and invas havekil more than 30 , 000 peopl , accord to gaza health offici . defac art ha becom a popular protest tacticin recent year . it is perhap most close associ with environmentalist , who have target paint by van gogh , vermeer and monet . thi year , two women from an environment group enter the louvr andflung soup at the mona lisa . most of the paint that have been target were cover or protect in some way , andveri few were damag . in recent week , pro - palestinian protest have target art in new york . thi week , a few dozen demonstr disrupt the open of an isra artist ’ s show at a manhattan galleri , hyperallerg report . last month , protestersinterrupt a conversationfeatur an isra artist whose draw depict oct . 7 are be exhibit at the jewish museum anddozen chant “ free palestin ” in a demonstr at the museum of modern art . marc tracyi a time report cover art and cultur . he is base in new york . more about marc traci advertis