israel - hamaswar advertis negoti held preliminari discuss in pari thi weekend , hope to reviv the possibl of a truce , the offici said . bypatrick kingsleyandedward wong report from jerusalem and washington diplomat are aim to restart negoti for a ceas - fire between israel and hama at some point in the next week , accord to three offici brief on the process , rekindl hope of an end to the fight in gaza even as israel press ahead with it campaign there . accord to the offici , preliminari discuss were held thi weekend in pari between david barnea , the director of israel ’ s foreign intellig agenc , the mossad ; william j . burn , the director of the c . i . a . ; and the qatari prime minist , sheikh moham bin abdulrahman al thani , one of the lead mediat between israel and hama . the offici spoke on condit of anonym becaus of the sensit of the matter . for month , qatar , the unit state and egypt have been tri to cajol israel and hama into accept a truce and an exchang of captiv that could help bring the seven - month war to a close . but previou talk have repeatedli broken down over the length and natur of the truce : hama want a perman ceas - fire , allow it to remain in charg of gaza , while israel want to be abl to continu fight after a paus — so that it can wrest hama from power . the other major point of content in the last round center on how to transit between differ phase of a three - phase deal . previou stick point have includ the extent to which isra troop should withdraw from gaza dure ani truce , and whether israel will allow gazan to move freeli between north and south gaza . the side have also disagre about the number of hostag that should be releas by hama , as well as the number of palestinian prison that should be freed in exchang by israel . in the last round , negoti talk about hama possibl releas 33 hostag , mainli women , the elderli and anyon in need of urgent medic care . more than 120 hostag remain in gaza , and roughli a quarter of them are dead , accord to the latest isra assess . dure the talk , egyptian and qatari offici have dealt directli with hama ’ s envoy , who do not meet in person with isra or american counterpart . egypt took the lead in the last round of negoti , which were held in cairo , though qatari offici were also present . diplomat say that the hostag negoti need to be complet in order to make headway in other relat diplomat initi . those endeavor includ a region debat about who should govern a postwar gaza ; talk over a normal deal between israel and saudi arabia ; and negoti for a ceas - fire between israel and hezbollah , the lebanes militia that is fight the isra militari along the israel - lebanon border . rawan sheikh ahmadcontribut report from haifa , israel , andjulian e . barnescontribut from washington . patrick kingsleyi the time ’ s jerusalem bureau chief , lead coverag of israel , gaza and the west bank . more about patrick kingsley edward wongi a diplomat correspond who ha report for the time for more than 24 year from new york , baghdad , beij and washington . he wa on a team of pulitz prize finalist for iraq war coverag . more about edward wong advertis