israel - hamaswar advertis support by the decis come as isra author announc that they had rescu four hostag who had been held in gaza sinc oct . 7 . bymatthew mpoke biggandaaron boxerman a key member of prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s isra war cabinet who ha threaten to depart amid seriou differ over the war in gaza ha indefinit postpon an expect news confer plan for saturday even , cite “ recent event . ” the decis come as isra author announc that they had rescu four hostag who had been held in gaza sinc oct . 7 in a “ complex ” oper in central gaza . benni gantz , a centrist opposit leader , ha said he would quit unless mr . netanyahu address hi concern about how the war would end and what would follow it , with pressur rise on mr . netanyahu to wind down the conflict and put forward a detail plan for govern the territori when fight end . last month , mr . gantz said he would resign by saturday , though there wa no public indic of whether he would follow through . if he were to depart , it would be unlik to forc mr . netanyahu from offic . mr . gantz and hi parti have not been part of the prime minist ’ s right - wing govern coalit , which ha a major of 64 seat in israel ’ s 120 - member parliament . but mr . gantz ’ s threat ha again expos the fractur within israel ’ s leadership as frustrat grow at home over the failur to decis defeat hama or to bring home all the hostag held in gaza . mr . gantz join the power war cabinet , which make mani of the decis about the gaza conflict , after the hama - led oct . 7 assault on israel , in a demonstr of uniti in a crisi . he brought statur to the role as a former militari chief of staff , former defens minist and popular opposit figur , seen as the chief polit rival to mr . netanyahu . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis