israel - hamaswar advertis support by the investig of prof . nadera shalhoub - kevorkian of hebrew univers ha prompt a debat insid israel about the repress of free speech and academ freedom sinc the war began . bydamien caveandrawan sheikh ahmad damien cave report from jerusalem and rawan sheikh ahmad report from haifa , israel . nadera shalhoub - kevorkian , a palestinian professor at a promin isra univers , first wade into the debat over the gaza war by join academ worldwid in sign a letter that call for a ceas - fire . it brand israel ’ s assault on the territori a “ genocid ” and the leader of her univers respond byurg her to resign . that wa soon after the war began on oct . 7 . month later , the professor drew even more scrutini for say it wa time to “ abolish zionism ” and accus israel of politic rape . she wa briefli suspend in march by hebrew univers of jerusalem , where she ha taught law and social work for nearli three decad . but right - wing isra politician demand more sever punish and in april , the polic detain her overnight . “ i have been persecut and defam , my academ product of knowledg flatten and my home and even my own bedroom invad , ” professor shalhoub - kevorkian , 64 , told the new york time . the professor is now under investig for incit to terror — a crime punish by up to five year in prison . and though she ha not been charg , her case ha prompt a profound debat insid israel about the repress of free speech and academ freedom sinc the war began more than eight month ago . the professor ’ s lawyer say she is be punish for her polit view . and some other isra professor and student worri that the countri ’ s univers — which had long defend the valu of rel divers and open - minded — have contribut to the suppress of dissent . while univers argu they are simpli tri to keep campus calm , critic say there is a clear doubl standard across isra societi : violent rhetor toward palestinian from jewish isra is often brush asid while palestinian citizen of israel who express support for palestinian in gaza or critic the conduct of the war face disciplin or even crimin investig . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis