israel - hamaswar advertis news analysi the recognit of palestinian statehood by spain , ireland and norway highlight the chang center of graviti , but there also are staunchli pro - israel nation in europ . bymatina stevi - gridneff report from brussel in europ , long a vital sourc of support for israel , the polit center of graviti is move away from prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s govern . spain , ireland and norway on wednesday recogn palestinian statehood , despit vehement isra and american opposit . and most european govern offer unequivoc support to the intern crimin court thi week , after it request arrest warrant for israel ’ s prime minist and defens minist , along with leader of hama . israel still ha staunch alli within the european union , especi hungari and the czech republ , and key player like germani , despit grow discomfort with israel ’ s conduct , have not shown ani inclin to alter their stanc . the grow fissur within europ mean that the consensu - driven european union will not chang it posit ani time soon . but european countri face rise intern and domest pressur to take a firmer stand against israel ’ s handl of the palestinian territori , and particularli the devast war in gaza . sweden promin becam one of a hand of european union member to recogn palestinian statehood a decad ago . europ ha long support the eventu creation of a palestinian state — the “ two - state solut ” that israel ’ s govern steadfastli oppos — and voic frustrat with israel ’ s handl of the gaza strip and the occupi west bank , but most nation have been unwil to go further . instead , the european union , befor the war , wa move closer to israel , includ through financi and polit import partnership in trade and scienc . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis