advertis support by at pro - palestinian demonstr , student have broken code of conduct and , sometim , the law . but the question of whether and how to disciplin them is vex univers . byjeremi w . peter youssef hasweh expect to receiv hi diploma from the univers of chicago on saturday . what he got instead wa an email from the associ dean of student inform him that , becaus he wa under investig for hi particip in a protest encamp on the campu quad , “ your degre will not be confer until the resolut of thi matter . ” like score of other student demonstr across the countri , mr . hasweh ha been swept up into a kind of disciplinari limbo . although he wa allow to particip in graduat , hi univers is withhold hi degre until it determin whether and how to punish him for break it code of conduct for refus to vacat an encamp , which the polic clear on may 7 . he ha alreadi been formal reprimand by the univers for be part of a group thatoccupiedan administr build last year in a protest over the israel - hama war . transcript “ thi is the graduat gown that i may or may not be wear — if they let me walk . i ’ m leav uchicago with a crimin record and mayb not with a degre . my name is youssef . i ’ m a brooklyn nativ . i ’ m half palestinian , half moroccan , and uchicago wa definit my dream school . ” “ oh my god . i got to the univers of chicago . mom ! ” “ and dure my time here my mission wa to make it a dream school for other folk . and that sort of led me straight into the admiss offic . i becam a student visit coordin . i gave tour . i got to act as a colleg rep . and that sort of bubbl of be an ambassador for uchicago on the global scale pop when i start talk about my ident , and i start talk about be palestinian and critiqu the univers . ” [ chant ] [ unclear ] “ we ’ ve been do action all year . blockad , sit - in , ralli , protest , banner drop , flyer , brochur — everyth . we realli just want a meet with paul , the presid of the univers of chicago . so we want , like , financi record . we want transpar . we want to know where our money wa go . and then we want the univers to divest from all isra entiti . and it took have to occupi a build and perform a sit - in . like , 30 of us went into rosenwald , which is the admiss offic , and we just sort of set up camp . ” [ chant ] [ unclear ] “ i wa just think to myself , oh , like , i ’ m go to be arrest . ” [ chant ] “ you invest in genocid . ” “ the state attorney had made a statement that she wasn ’ t go to prosecut protest charg . so as soon as our charg were drop , the univers decid to go through the formal process for us , which mean everyth is on the tabl . we could be suspend . we could be expel . ” “ we came back to join a nation encamp movement . ” “ we won ’ t stop until we win . ” “ we actual were plan an encamp as well , prior to columbia ’ s launch . just see solidar all over the countri made us more confid to do thi encamp . ” “ what do you know . ” “ where doe all our money go . ” “ where doe our money go . ” “ i have famili in palestin , and i ’ m live in palestin . thi is my 24 / 7 . i mean , i ’ m done . like , i have noth left here . and that ’ s weird , like , come from me , who spent so mani year , not just , like , love thi univers , but help other love it . like , i ’ m crush that the univers would ever do thi . i feel like i have noth left at the univers here , but peopl in palestin truli have noth . ” the question of how harshli to disciplin these student cut deep in academia , where mani univers take pride in their histori of student activ , on issu such as civil right , the vietnam war , south african apartheid and incom inequ . some faculti member themselv celebr such activ and encourag student to becom polit involv — and have also face arrest and disciplin for do so . but today , some student have made a demand of their colleg that is vex administr and veteran of past social movement : they want all charg against them , both academ and legal , drop . mani student have been charg with crimin misdemeanor , such as trespass . other havefac disciplinefrom their univers , which can rang from a warn on their record to suspens and expuls . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis