israel - hamaswar advertis subscrib - onlynewslett what to know about karim khan ’ s decis to seek arrest warrant for three hama leader as well as israel ’ s prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , and defens minist , yoav gallant . byamanda taub report from london the decis of karim khan , the intern crimin court ’ s chief prosecutor , topublicli seek arrest warrantsfor the leader of hama and israel thi week will be one of the most signific and contenti of hi career . khanaccusedthre hama leader of war crime and crime against human relat to the oct . 7 attack on israel andhostag take . he also accus israel ’ s prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , and it defens minist , yoav gallant , of war crime and crime against human dure israel ’ s militari oper in gaza , includ thestarvationof civilian . now a three - judg panel will consid whether to issu the warrant . some countri welcom the news as a sign that all individu , regardless of their state or statu , are equal befor the law , while other — includ the unit state , israel ’ s most import alli — denounc the charg and accus khan of fals equival in pursu warrant for hama and isra leader at the same time . khan didn ’ t have to announc the warrant applic publicli . he could have wait until they were grant , as with the warrant for presid vladimir v . putin of russia last year — a process that can take week or month . so whi did he go public now and with such fanfar — issu not onli anew releas , but also social media video and aprerecord interviewwith cnn ? the answer lie partli in the extraordinarili polar natur of thi conflict , in which ani legal intervent would be subject to deep scrutini . it ’ s also about what the prosecutor ’ s offic hope to achiev as militari action continu in gaza , famin loom and hostag remain in captiv . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis