advertis support by mainstream democrat lawmak want the presid to speak out more forc for the polici that hi administr ha embrac , includ a ceas - fire . byjonathan weisman follow live updat onbiden ’ s state of the union address . mainstream democrat , watch the polit around israel ’ s war in gaza shift against them , are press presid biden to becom far more outspoken in hi critic of prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s right - wing govern and far more upfront in hi demand for a long - term solut to the conflict that includ a palestinian state . at the outset of the war , with memori fresh from hama ’ s terrorist attack on israel that took around 1 , 200 live , jewish democrat who had grown restivemor than a year ago over mr . netanyahu ’ s govern larg ralli aroundmr . biden as he side firmlywith israel . but as the death toll in gaza rise inexor , mani are plead with the presid not so much to chang polici but to becom the voic of hi administr ’ s own demand for a ramadan ceas - fire , more humanitarian aid , more restraint of jewish settler violenc and a long - term peac that includ a palestinian state . “ we are hope that a strategi for peac and an end to thi nightmar will be laid out at the state of the union , ” repres jami raskin of maryland , a promin jewish democrat , said on wednesday . “ nobodi can question biden ’ s commit to the secur of israel , and nobodi can question hi commit over the cours of hi career to human right and intern law . now is the time when the world need to see american leadership for peac . ” mr . raskin , return to earlier critic of mr . netanyahu ’ s govern coalit , the most right - wing in israel ’ s histori , ad , “ democrat feel we don ’ t take order from right - wing politician in america , and we shouldn ’ t be take order from right - wing politician in anoth countri . ” more than a dozen jewish democrat in the hous spearheadeda critic letter late last monthdemand mr . biden “ redoubl ” hi effort to achiev a ceas - fire that facilit more humanitarian aid to starv gazan . mani of the same lawmak on wednesday warn against an isra strike on the citi of rafah , along the gaza - egypt border , where hundr of thousand of displac civilian have shelter . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis