israel - hamaswar advertis top news the isra militari show famili member of the hostag the video a few week ago and gave them a copi on tuesday , which they share . byaaron boxerman report from jerusalem the famili of sever isra femal soldier taken hostag dure the hama - led attack on oct . 7 have releas video of their abduct in an attempt to pressur the isra govern to revivestalledceas - fire talk that could pave the way for the captiv ’ releas . famili member first saw the footag a few week ago via the isra militari , which formal hand them a copi on tuesday night , accord to the hostag and miss famili forum , which repres famili of hostag held captiv in gaza . “ i ’ m ask you , pleas show thi clip everi day , open your broadcast with it , ” eli albag , whose daughter liri albag can be seenin the video , said in a televis interview with israel ’ s channel 12 . “ until somebodi wake up , the nation wake up , and realiz that they ’ ve been abandon there for 229 day . ” on thursday , the day after the video wa made public , prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s offic said in a statement that israel ’ s war cabinet had order it negoti to “ continu talk to bring home the hostag ” held in gaza . but hope for immedi progress appear remot in the shadow of israel ’ s ongo militari oper in rafah , in southern gaza , from which over 800 , 000 palestinian have fled , accord to the unit nation . some isra politician immedi seiz on the video on wednesday to tri to rebuff the decis by ireland , norway , and spain tounilater recogn a palestinian state . israel katz , the foreign minist , said he would screen the footag dure a “ sever reprimand ” of the countri ’ ambassador . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis