israel - hamaswar advertis support by fifa said it would solicit legal advic befor take up a motion from the palestinian footbal associ to suspend israel over it action in gaza and the west bank . bytariq panja report from bangkok fifa , soccer ’ s global govern bodi , on friday postpon a decis to temporarili suspend israel over it action dure the conflict in gaza , and in the west bank , say it need to solicit legal advic befor take up a motion submit by the palestinian footbal associ . the motion call for israel ’ s suspens refer to “ intern law violat commit by the isra occup in palestin , particularli in gaza , ” and cite violat of fifa ’ s human right and discrimin statut . respond toemot charg addressesat fifa ’ s annual congress by the head of the palestinian soccer bodi , jibril rajoub , fifa ’ s presid , gianni infantino , said the urgenc of the situat meant he would conven an extraordinari meet of fifa ’ s top board on juli 25 . befor that meet , he said , fifa will ask expert to analyz whether israel ’ s action breach the govern bodi ’ s regul . by contrast , in 2022 , fifa act quicklyto bar russian team and clubsfrom competit after the countri ’ s forc launch a full - scale invas of neighbor ukrain . mr . rajoub ha for year pursu sanction against israel and it team over a varieti of issu , includ freedom of movement for palestinian player and for allow team base in territori overseen by the palestinian soccer feder to play in israel ’ s domest leagu . sinc isra forc invad gaza last octob in retali for the hama - led attack on oct . 7 , all soccer infrastructur in the territori , includ a histor stadium , ha been destroy , mr . rajoub said . israel ’ s soccer chief , mosh zuar , call the palestinian motion “ cynic . ” but the possibl of even a temporari ban on it team could have immedi consequ : israel is set to compet in the men ’ s tournament at the pari olymp around the time of the fifa meet in juli , and to begin qualifi for the 2026 men ’ s world cup later thi year . both isra and palestinian offici had use the run - up to friday ’ s congress to lobbi offici from other nation feder . a day earlier , at a meet of asian soccer ’ s govern bodi , memberswer shown a videoshow the effect of the war in gaza and then unanim approv a decis to back the palestinian feder ’ s motion . palestinian offici address fifa ’ s 211 member twice dure friday ’ s meet , and were follow by an offici from jordan who demand action from fifa . while acknowledg the urgenc of the matter , mr . infantino declin to call a vote . instead , he said , the organ ’ s 37 - member govern council would decid what to do in two month . “ fifa will mandat as of now an independ legal expertis to assess the three request made by the palestinian footbal associ and make sure that the statu and regul of fifa are appli in the correct way , ” he said . tariq panjai a global sport correspond , focus on stori where money , geopolit and crime intersect with the sport world . more about tariq panja advertis