advertis support by dealbook execut commun expert say the gig is becom a harder sell for busi leader . bysarah kessler , lauren hirschandmichael j . de la merc tim cook ha deliv at least seven commenc address sinc becom the chief execut of appl . the superstar taylor swift , whose concert have been credit with lift local economi , address new york univers ’ s graduat ceremoni in 2022 . bill gate , oprah winfrey , jami dimon — they ’ ve all given graduat speech more than onc . they ’ re obvious not do it for the money ( and typic there isn ’ t ani ) . instead , speaker have long seen graduat ceremoni as offer someth increasingli rare : a stage where a larg group of peopl gather to hear speaker impart wisdom , advic or whatev els they want to talk about . the appeal of be a commenc speaker , howev , seem to be wane . just three fortun 50 chief execut appear to be commenc speaker thi year , as colleg have face campu protest over the war in gaza , student arrest and wealthi alumni threaten to break tie with their alma mater over antisemit . “ the idea of c . e . o . s go out aggress and speak anywher near thi environ on campus , it just doesn ’ t seem like the moment for them to be do that , ” said david murray , the execut director of the profession speechwrit associ . c . e . o . s are tire of talk . at a recent meet of execut speechwrit , murray said one takeaway stood out . as one present put it , “ less is more , in ’ 24 . ” murray highlight the sentiment in the profession speechwrit associ ’ s may newslett : “ folk will increasingli keep their leader out of the spotlight , ” he wrote , describ the current moment as one in which “ even formerli anodyn messag encourag employe to vote ” sound partisan to some . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis