israel - hamaswar advertis support by the four hostag rescu in gaza were describ as malnourish and traumat . byadam rasgonandisabel kershner report from tel aviv and jerusalem in the month after he wa taken hostag in israel and hidden in the gaza strip , andrey kozlov ’ s captor kept drum in the same messag : the world , they said , had given up on him . even hi famili had move on . “ your mom is on vacat in greec , ” the milit told him . “ your mom doesn ’ t know about you at all — and doesn ’ t want to know . ” so persuas were they that when isra secur forc burst through the door of the apart where mr . kozlov wa be held on saturday , he wa at first unsur of whether they had come to save or kill him , hi parent said in an interview thi week dure which they recount hi ordeal . the account of mr . kozlov ’ s eight month in captiv came as a doctor in israel report that while he and the three other rescu hama hostag seem to be in fairli good condit at first glanc , test show that all were malnourish . and all , said dr . itai pessach , the head of the medic team for return hostag at sheba medic center , had suffer mistreat in vari degre of frequenc and intens . “ they were all abus , punish and tortur physic and psycholog in mani way , ” he said . dr . pessach said the hostag he had examin had lost a lot of weight , though they gain some back , and their muscl were “ extrem wast . ” the mix of poor nutrit , confin , lack of sunlight and stress that they endur may have long - term implic for their health , he ad . hama say it ha treat the hostag well compar with israel ’ s treatment of palestinian prison , a claim that isra offici deni . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis