advertis the leader of northwestern , rutger and the univers of california , lo angel , appear to have navig their testimoni befor congress without mani signific misstep . byjacey fortin the leader of three univers deni that their campus have becom “ hotb of antisemit , ” as one hous republican describ them in a congression hear on thursday . but they acknowledg misstep in the handl of the pro - palestinian demonstr that have engulf american univers in recent month , and said that some act of hostil toward jewish student need to be address . the hear grew heat at time , especi as republican accus the leader of northwestern and rutger of “ give in ” to demonstr . but for the most part , the presid of the two school , as well as the chancellor of the univers of california , lo angel , appear to fare better than other univers leader who have testifi befor the same committe sinc the oct . 7 hama - led attack on israel . although they got caught up in some testi exchang and seem to dodg a few question , the leader appear to have navig their testimoni on thursday without mani signific misstep . their respons were at time consid , and at other time comb . they point to the challeng of balanc student safeti with free speech — especi at rutger and u . c . l . a . , which are both public univers that must abid by the first amend — and they condemn episod of antisemit on campu . here are five takeaway from the hear . the presid of rutger and northwestern said that the goal of strike deal with pro - palestinian protest had been to end the encamp and restor safeti for all student , includ jewish student who found the demonstr threaten . come to agreement with the demonstr had made that possibl , they said — and note that they had done it without commit to divest from israel , as student had demand . “ we had to get the encamp down , ” said michael schill , the presid of northwestern univers , ad that he had sought to avoid polic intervent on campu — a decis that mani of hi peer have made , lead to nearli 3 , 000 arrest at univers sinc april 18 . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis