advertis bythoma l . friedman opinion columnist the decis by spain , norway and ireland on wednesday to recogn an independ palestinian state mark the latest brick in the wall of reject be built around israel ’ s current far - right govern , which is ask the world to let it destroy hama in gaza while refus to work on a new futur with non - hama palestinian . more than140 countri and the holi seehav recogn the right of palestinian to have a state in the west bank , gaza and east jerusalem . what is noteworthi about thi latest move , though , is that major western european countri , and the unit state , had resist go there , argu that peac should be work out between the two parti . until today . my focu is alway on the practic : will these recognit of a nonexist palestinian state with undefin border lead to the onli sustain solut — a real - life peac between two state for two indigen commun — jew and palestinian ? the answer is ye and no . in the short term , these diplomat recognit from fellow democraci will not move the isra public , yohanan plesner , presid of the israel democraci institut , told me . in the wake of the horrif murder , rape and kidnap perpetr by hama on oct . 7 , he said , european tell israel that it must accept a palestinian state — “ without even mention that it must be demilitar or ani oblig on the part of palestinian to reject hama ” — will be “ reject ” by the isra silent major . in the long term , though , it is precis these kind of diplomat shock that could lead the opposit leader in israel to final escap from the gravit pull of prime minist benjamin netanyahu — who domin what is or is not permiss to say on thi subject — and start call for two state on term israel can live with . one can alreadi see sign of that . if that doe not transpir , though , israel is head for a world of hurt . those recognit of a palestinian state by european nation “ are a huge straw in the wind , that will grow into a hurrican if israel doe not chang cours , ” craig charney , a pollster who wa a member of nelson mandela ’ s poll team in the 1990 , told me . charney explain that the isol of south africa ’ s apartheid regim start with a voluntari arm embargo in the 1960 , which after the soweto upris morph in the 1970 into a formal u . n . arm embargo , which grew into a popular caus on campus and in boardroom in the earli 1980 , which grew into a broader econom , militari and travel embargo in the mid - 1980 — until two great leader , nelson mandela and f . w . de klerk , final emerg to end apartheid . “ but it wa a veri pain journey , ” he said . thoma l . friedman is the foreign affair opinion columnist . he join the paper in 1981 and ha won three pulitz prize . he is the author of seven book , includ “ from beirut to jerusalem , ” which won the nation book award . @ tomfriedman • facebook advertis