israel - hamaswar advertis as the muslim holi month of ramadan approach , the move may reduc tension at the aqsa mosqu compound , which ha long been a flashpoint for unrest . byadam sella report from tel aviv the isra govern ha decid against put new restrict on access to an import mosqu in jerusalem dure the muslim holi month of ramadan , a move that may reduc tension at a site that ha long been a flashpoint for unrest . at a meet on tuesday night led by prime minist benjamin netanyahu , secur offici decid to let a similar number of worship enterth aqsa mosqu compounddur ramadan as they had in previou year , mr . netanyahu ’ s offic said . ramadan , whose start is tie to the sight of the crescent moon , is expect to begin in a few day . israel ha long restrict access to the compound , which is sacr to muslim and jew alik , dure ramadan for palestinian from the isra - occupi west bank . thi year , itamar ben - gvir , the far - right nation secur minist , call on the governmentto impos limit on arab citizen of israel as well . the decis on tuesday put an end to the plan promot by mr . ben - gvir , but it allow some wiggl room . “ a weekli assess of the secur and safeti aspect will be held ; a decis will be made accordingli , ” a statement from the prime minist ’ s offic said . the mosqu compound ha regularli been the scene of violent clash . confront at the site in may 2021contribut to the outbreakof an 11 - day war between israel and hama . with ramadan near as the current israel - hama war enter it sixth month , the fear of escal at the site ha intensifi . on tuesday , presid joe biden said that if a ceas - fire deal wa not reach by ramadan , “ it ’ s go to be veri danger . ” mansour abba , an arab isra member of the knesset , the isra parliament , prais the decis . “ i congratul the prime minist for the respons decis to allow muslim worship at al aqsa mosqu freedom of worship , ” he wrote on x , formerli twitter . mr . ben - gvir , howev , express concern that the decis would undermin israel ’ s effort to destroy the milit group hama , which attack israel on oct . 7 . “ hama celebr on the templ mount ≠ complet victori , ” he wrote on x , use the name use by jew to refer to al aqsa . hama previous condemn ani isra restrict on worship at al aqsa . on monday , a hama leader call on palestinian to turn the mosqu into a site of confront . palestinian in the isra - occupi west bank and jerusalem should “ turn everi moment of ramadan into a clash and confront with the enemi to protect al aqsa , ” osama hamdan , a hama leader base in beirut , told a confer of muslim scholar by video . in muslim tradit , the prophet muhammad ascend to heaven from the site of al aqsa , and ten of thousand of muslim visit the mosqu everi day dure ramadan . for jew , the area is rever as the templ mount becaus it wa the site of two jewish templ in antiqu that remain central to jewish ident . matthew mpoke biggcontribut report . advertis