israel - hamaswar advertis dozen of other displac palestinian who had been shelter nearbi were also injur , the offici said . transcript ( child scream ) ( scream ) byanushka patil an isra strike outsid a hospit in rafah , in southern gaza , on saturday kill at least 11 peopl and injur dozen of other displac palestinian , includ children , who were shelter in tent nearbi , the gaza health ministri said . at least two health care worker , includ a paramed , were among those kill after the strike near the gate of the emirati matern hospit , the health ministri said . photo taken by news agenc show colleagu of the paramed , whom the health ministri identifi as abdul fattah abu marai , take hi bodi to the nearbi kuwaiti hospit , as well as injur children lie on stretcher , as other children look on and cri . the isra militari said later saturday that , with help from israel ’ s domest secur agenc , it had carri out a “ precis strike ” against “ islam jihad terrorist ” near the hospit . the militari declin to respond to report that the strike had injur children . the isra militari had previous declar that rafah , gaza ’ s southernmost citi , would be a safe zone for civilian , and more than half of the enclav ’ s entir popul is now cram into it , with mani live in makeshift tent over nearli everi inch of avail space . butairstrik on rafahhav continu even as the number of peopl shelter there ha swell to around 1 . 5 million . prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel hasvow that hi forc will invad the citywheth or not a temporari ceas - fire deal is reach , despit dire warn from humanitarian group and mani of israel ’ s alli that ani militari oper in rafah would have catastroph consequ for civilian . the news of saturday ’ s strike wa “ outrag and unspeak , ” the leader of the world health organ , tedro adhanom ghebreyesu , said on social media , reiter call for a ceas - fire and for the protect of health care worker and civilian . the victim of the strike were shelter near the emirati matern hospit , one of the last hospit still function in gaza . despit have onli five bed remain for women give birth , the hospit is manag more than half of the estim 180 birth happen daili in the enclav , said domin allen , the state of palestin repres for the unit nation popul fund , a sexual and reproduct health agenc known as u . n . f . p . a . the emirati hospit is essenti “ the last hope for pregnant women in the whole of gaza , ” mr . allen said . a strike so close to the hospit pose a “ terrifi ” risk to pregnant women , newborn and the overload health care worker tri to care for them , he ad . anushka patil is a report cover live news . she join the time in 2019 . more about anushka patil advertis