israel - hamaswar advertis support by the assess , at odd with prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s assert that the countri is “ on the brink of victori , ” came as israel claim control of a key buffer strip along egypt ’ s border . byaaron boxerman , gabbi sobelman , erika solomonandthoma fuller israel ’ s nation secur advis said wednesday that he expect militari oper in gaza to continu through at least the end of the year , appear to dismiss the idea that the war could come to an end after the militari offens against hama in rafah . “ we expect anoth seven month of combat in order to shore up our achiev and realiz what we defin as the destruct of hama and islam jihad ’ s militari and govern capabl , ” tzachi hanegbi , the nation secur advis , said in a radio interview with kan , the isra public broadcast . the isra militari also said wednesday that it had seiz “ oper control ” over abuff stripalong the southern edg of gaza to prevent cross - border smuggl with egypt that would allow hama and other palestinian milit group to rearm . prime minist benjamin netanyahu ha said repeatedli that control the corridor is critic for isra secur in postwar gaza . rear adm . daniel hagari , the isra militari spokesman , said the zone wa “ hama ’ s oxygen tube ” and had been use by the palestinian arm group for “ smuggl munit into gazan territori on a regular basi . ” he said that hama had also built tunnel near the egyptian border , calcul that israel would not dare strike so close to egyptian territori . in recent month , isra defens offici have told the public to expect a protract campaign in gaza , although one that would progress in phase toward lower - intens fight . still , mr . hanegbi ’ s assess of at least anoth seven month of militari oper appear to be at odd with earlier project by mr . netanyahu , who said in april that the countri wa “ on the brink of victori ” in it war against hama . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis