israel - hamaswar advertis support by relief organ say cumbersom new strategi can not substitut for israel allow more suppli truck into the gaza strip , while an airdrop of aid reportedli went awri and kill five peopl . byhiba yazbek , aaron boxerman , monika pronczukandthoma fuller a day after presid biden announc plan for maritim aid deliveri to the gaza strip , european leader said friday they would deliv aid by ship as earli as the weekend . but aid group and gaza offici critic shipment by air or sea as too cumbersom , urg that vastli more food and medicin be suppli by truck . the complic of deliv aid to the hungri resid of gaza were underlin on friday when the author in gaza said at least five palestinian were kill and sever other were wound after they were struck by packag of humanitarian aid that were drop from an aircraft . the unit nation ha warn that five month of war and an isra blockad have left hundr of thousand of gazan on the brink of starvat , prompt a varieti of propos to speed the deliveri of food and other vital need . israel insist on inspect all suppli go into gaza , and aid truck have been allow in through just two border cross — one from egypt and one from israel — in southern gaza . presid biden on thursday night outlin a u . s . militari plan to build a float pier on gaza ’ s mediterranean coast to suppli food , water , medicin and other necess to civilian , say the oper would “ enabl a massiv increas ” in the assist enter the territori . the pentagon press secretari , maj . gen . pat ryder , said in a news confer on friday that the pier would help to deliv as mani as two million meal a day . the gaza strip ha a popul of about 2 . 3 million . but u . s . offici said the project would take at least 30 to 60 day to complet , rais question about how famin in gaza will be stave off in the critic day ahead . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis