advertis support by the new rule , which would also significantli rein in demonstr at the univers in other way , come on the heel of a nationwid wave of student activ against israel ’ s action in gaza . byanemona hartocolli the univers of pennsylvania issu temporari rule on thursday that significantli rein in protest on campu and , for the first time , explicitli ban encamp . the action came less than a month afterth polic clear away a pro - palestinian encampmentat the univers and arrest 33 peopl . score of encamp protest israel ’ s war in gazahav sprung up at universitiesacross the countri thi spring , lead to more than 3 , 000 arrest sinc mid - april and heighten tension between student and univers . “ to ensur the safeti of the penn commun and to protect the health and properti of individu , encamp and overnight demonstr are not permit in ani univers locat , regardless of space ( indoor or outdoor ) , ” penn ’ s new rule for protest say , ad , “ unauthor overnight activ will be consid trespass and address . ” the rule also forbid protest that prevent speaker on campu from express their view or “ other member of the commun from hear or see the speaker . ” and they bar student from project slogan onto build or write slogan on them in semi - perman or perman chalk or marker . penn ’ s administr said that the new rule , which will be review by a faculti - led task forc in the 2024 - 25 academ year , were issu in respons to call for more clariti about what wa permit on campu . the administr said that the rule “ aim to enabl free express while allow penn to deliv it core mission of teach , research , servic and patient care without disrupt . ” the univers said that student who violat the rule would face disciplinari action , but did not go into detail . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis