israel - hamaswar advertis support by the closur thi month of the rafah border cross into egypt , the onli way out for civilian , ha thrown an alreadi complic system into disarray . byham aleaziz report from washington ghada redwan , a 48 - year - old pharmacist in houston , ha been tri to get her parent out of gaza for month . their bag , pack and readi to go , have been sit by their door in rafah , the citi where israel is nowconduct a militari offens . but ms . redwan ha hit roadblock at everi turn . and like other palestinian american desper to get their rel to safeti , she ha describ a confound bureaucrat maze involv the state depart , the govern of israel and egypt , politician , advocaci group , lawyer and more . the closur thi month of the rafah border cross into egypt — the onli way out for civilian — ha thrown an alreadi complic system into disarray , lead to call for the unit state to make a more forc effort to evacu the rel of american citizen . “ you feel like there ’ s noth you can do , ” ms . redwan said in an interview . “ you live comfort , you have money , you ’ re a u . s . citizen and your parent are suffer and there ’ s noth you can do for them . it is just insan . ” ms . redwan last spoke to her mother on monday morn , one day after an isra strike thatkil dozen of palestiniansin a camp for displac peopl in rafah . “ there is no safe place , ” her mother told her . “ just pray for us . ” sinc the start of the war seven month ago , more than 1 , 800 american citizen and their famili have left gaza with the assist of the state depart , u . s . offici say . they are onli a fraction of the hundr of thousand of gazan desper to leav as the alreadi dire condit there deterior . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis