israel - hamaswar advertis offici say hama ha continu to press israel for a commit to a perman ceas - fire after a multistag releas of all hostag , but israel ha refus . byronen bergman , edward wongandjulian e . barn ronen bergman and edward wong report from istanbul , and julian barn from washington . talk between israel and hama over the releas of dozen of isra hostag held in gaza have stall , dim hope that a deal could be reach befor ramadan begin in a few day , accord to sever peopl brief on the convers . negoti had beendiscuss a proposalfor an initi six - week ceas - fire dure which hama would releas about 40 peopl — includ women , elderli and ill hostag , and five femal isra soldier — for a substanti number of palestinian prison . the discuss includ term for releas at least 15 prison convict of seriou act of terror who would be exchang for the femal soldier . the term also said israel would releas hundr of other detaine or prison , at an averag of 10 palestinian for everi isra civilian freed , offici said . american offici had said that they hope to reach an agreement to releas some hostag and put in place a temporari paus in fight befor ramadan , which is expect to start thi sunday . presid biden express confid last week that a deal wa within reach . but in recent day , hama ha back away from the propos agreement and made demand that israel refus to meet , accord to offici brief on the talk . the negoti had been take place in doha , qatar , befor they move to cairo in recent day . john f . kirbi , a nation secur council spokesman , said on wednesday that while the unit state wa disappoint that an agreement had not been reach , negoti were still confid in the paramet of the deal they had help negoti . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis