israel - hamaswar advertis support by in an isra prison infirmari , a jewish dentist came to the aid of a desper ill hama inmat . year later , the prison becam a mastermind of the oct . 7 attack . byjo beckerandadam sella jo becker report from tel aviv , and adam sella from nir oz , israel . sinc the earli day of the israel - hama war , they have trace the aftereffect of a fate encount between yahya sinwar and dr . yuval bitton . thi is how dr . yuval bitton rememb the morn of oct . 7 . be jolt awak just after sunris by the insist ring of hi phone . the frantic voic of hi daughter , who wa travel abroad , ask , “ dad , what ’ s happen in israel ? turn on the tv . ” news anchor were still piec togeth the report : palestinian gunmen penetr israel ’ s vaunt defens , infiltr more than 20 town and militari base , kill approxim 1 , 200 peopl and drag more than 240 men , women and children into gaza as hostag . even in that first moment , dr . bitton say , he knew with certainti who had mastermind the attack : yahya sinwar , the leader of hama in gaza and inmat no . 7333335 in the isra prison system from 1989 until hi releas in a prison swap in 2011 . but that wa not all . dr . bitton had a histori with yahya sinwar . as he watch the imag of terror and death flicker across hi screen , he wa torment by a decis he had made nearli two decad befor — how , work in a prison infirmari , he had come to the aid of a mysteri and desper ill mr . sinwar , and how afterward the hama leader had told him that “ he owe me hi life . ” the two men had then form a relationship of sort , sworn enemi who nevertheless show a wari mutual respect . as a dentist and later as a senior intellig offic for the isra prison servic , dr . bitton had spent hundr of hour talk with and analyz mr . sinwar , who in the seven month sinc oct . 7 ha elud israel ’ s forc even as their assault on gaza ha kill ten of thousand and turn much of the enclav to rubbl . now american offici believemr . sinwar is call the shotsfor hama in negoti over a deal for a ceas - fire and the releas of some of the hostag . mediterranean sea west bank tel aviv israel jerusalem dead sea gaza citi gaza strip nir oz beersheba beersheba prison complex negev desert egypt jordan eilat 20 mile by the new york time we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis