israel - hamaswar west bank dispatch sinc the war in gaza began , arm isra settler , often accompani by the armi , have step up seizur of land long use by palestinian . west bank dispatch sinc the war in gaza began , arm isra settler , often accompani by the armi , have step up seizur of land long use by palestinian . a settler herd goat outsid the newli expand settlement of tekoa . credit ... support by byben hubbard photograph bysergey ponomarev ben hubbard report from two town in the occupi west bank , the arab - palestinian commun of tuqu and the jewish - isra settlement of tekoa . from the outskirt of hi town in the west bank , the mayor survey the rocki hill stretch toward the dead sea where palestinian had long farm and herd , and point out the new featur of the landscap . new guard post man by isra soldier . new road patrol by isra settler . and , most tellingli , a new metal gate block the town ’ s sole road to those area , instal and lock by the isra armi to keep palestinian out . “ anyon who goe to the gate , they either arrest him or kill him , ” said the mayor , moussa al - shaer , of the town of tuqu . on the other side of the gate , atop a bald hill in the distanc , stood one of the area ’ s new resid , abeer izra , a jewish settler . “ with god ’ s help , we will stay here a long time , ” mr . izra said . the case of the two peopl on either side of the gate is a particularli clear exampl of a dynam play out across the isra - occupi west bank . as much of the world ha focus on the war in gaza , jewish settler mile away in the west bank have hasten the rate at which they are seiz land previous use by palestinian , right group say . 10 mile mediterranean sea tel aviv west bank jerusalem israel tekoa tuqu gaza strip dead sea by the new york time we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis