advertis support by violent respons to pro - palestinian activist follow a sweep agreement aim at strike an equilibrium between preserv public safeti and the right of protest . bymaria cramer last septemb , the new york polic departmentsign a sweep agreement in feder courtthat wa meant to end overwhelm respons to protest that often led to violent clash , larg - scale arrest and expens civil right lawsuit . the sight of hundr of offic in tactic gearmov in on pro - palestinian demonstr in bay ridg , brooklyn , on saturdaysuggest to civil libertarian that the depart might not abid by the agreement when it is fulli implement . at least two offic wear the white shirt of command were film punch three protest who were prone in the middl of a crosswalk . and film clip of recent campu protest show some offic push and drag student , a hand of whom later said they had been injur by the polic , though mani offic appear to show restraint dure the arrest . “ i think member of the public are veri concern that the polic will be unwil or unabl to meet their end of the bargain , ” said jennvin wong , a staff attorney with legal aid , which , along with the new york civil liberti union , file a lawsuit against the citi over the depart ’ s respons to protest in 2020 afterth kill of georg floyd . that lawsuit wa later combin with a complaint file by letitia jame , the state attorney gener , over what she call widespread abus dure the black live matter protest . last fall , polic offici and ms . jame reach the agreement in feder court , intend to strike a new equilibrium between the depart ’ s need to preserv public safeti and the right of protest . the citi , along with two major polic union , agre to develop polici and train that would teach the depart to respond gradual to demonstr , rather than send in larg number of offic immedi , and to emphas de - escal over an immedi show of forc . the implement wa expect to take three year . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis