israel - hamaswar advertis under a u . s .- broker agreement , egypt allow truck to pass through the isra - control kerem shalom . byaaron boxermanandvivek shankar aid truck from egypt enter the gaza strip on sunday under a new u . s .- broker agreement to reopen a vital conduit for humanitarian relief , the isra militari and the egyptian red crescent said . egypt had block aid from enter the enclav via it territori sinc israel ’ s seizur of the rafah cross — which provid access to southern gaza — in earli may . the two side have trade blame over that cross ’ s closur , even as aid ha pile up on the egyptian side . after u . s . pressur , egypt announc on friday that it had agre to divert truck through the isra - control kerem shalom cross , which is roughli two mile from the rafah cross , as a temporari measur . some 126 truck from egypt contain food , fuel and other necess enter the gaza strip through kerem shalom on sunday , the isra militari said in a statement . the truck were inspect by isra offici , said ahmad ezzat , an egyptian red crescent offici . the quantiti of food , water and medicin reach gazan ha plummet sinc the war began nearli eight month ago . as a result , the unit nation and aid group have been warn of widespread hunger in the enclav and urg israel to open more rout for aid to enter . but in recent week , aid shipment into gaza throughth two main land conduitshav been interrupt . one of those cross is kerem shalom , which sit at the intersect of gaza , israel and egypt . israel temporarili close kerem shalom a few week ago after a hama rocket attack there kill four of it soldier . sinc then israel ha allowedsom aid into gaza through kerem shalom , but it distribut ha been a point of content . israel say that aid agenc must distribut the aid . but the agenc say that the isra militari ’ s activ in southern gaza ha made their job nearli imposs . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis