israel - hamaswar advertis “ it ’ s a form of psycholog tortur , ” said one man in rafah . “ it ’ s unbear . we ’ re told one day that the war is end and then the opposit the next day . ” byadam rasgonandabu bakr bashir report from jerusalem and london when presid biden suggest last week thata ceas - fire wa immin , khalil el - halabi wa elat . mr . halabi , a 70 - year - old retir u . n . offici , parad through a cluster of tent in the citi of rafah in southern gaza , deliv the news to peopl displac by the war , prompt cheer and clap . but the joy didn ’ t last : the next morn , report that gap remain between israel and hama brought him back down to earth . “ it ’ s a form of psycholog tortur , ” mr . halabi said . “ it ’ s unbear . we ’ re told one day that the war is end and then the opposit the next day . ” palestinian in gaza , whose live may depend on a ceas - fire , have follow news of indirect talk between israel and hama with rapt attent . but a stream of conflict report ha sent them on an exhaust emot roller - coaster as they huddl in crowd apart , tent citi and shelter . the tension is especi acut in rafah , which is dens pack with more than one million displac peopl . israel ha repeatedli threaten to invad the citi as it tri to root out the leadership of hama . the unit state is press for a ceas - fire to be negoti ahead of ramadan , the muslim fast month that begin in about a week . on sunday , vice presid kamala harri said a deal wa on the tabl for a ceas - fire of at least six - week , one that would includ the releas of hostag held by milit in gaza and the entri of a “ signific ” amount of aid . the u . s .- back propos is to exchang score of palestinian prison and detaine for 40 hostag in gaza , offici say . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis