israel - hamaswar advertis support by the time of the remark seem to rebuff the presid ’ s hope for a speedi end to the war . but some analyst said the prime minist wa aim at domest support , not the white hous . byaaron boxerman a day after presid biden call on israel and hama to reach a truce , declar that it wa “ time for thi war to end , ” prime minist benjamin netanyahu on saturday reiter that israel would not agre to a perman ceas - fire in gaza as long as hama still retain govern and militari power . in hi statement , mr . netanyahu did not explicitli endors or reject a propos ceas - fire plan that mr . biden had laid out in an unusu detail address on friday . two isra offici confirm that mr . biden ’ s propos match an isra ceas - fire propos that had been greenlit by israel ’ s war cabinet . the offici spoke on condit of anonym to discuss sensit negoti . but the time of mr . netanyahu ’ s remark , come first thing the next morn , seem to put the brake on mr . biden ’ s hope for a speedi resolut to the war , which ha claim the live of more than 36 , 000 palestinian , accord to the gaza health ministri . “ israel ’ s condit for end the war have not chang : the destruct of hama ’ s militari and govern capabl , the free of all hostag and ensur that gaza no longer pose a threat to israel , ” mr . netanyahu ’ s offic said in the statement releas on saturday morn . biden administr offici and some isra analyst said they believ that israel still support the propos mr . biden describ on friday , and that mr . netanyahu ’ s statement on saturday wa more tailor to hi domest audienc and meant to manag hi far - right cabinet member , rather than to push back against the white hous . mr . biden is eager for the war to end , with the american presidenti elect just five month away . but mr . netanyahu ’ s domest polit worri could prove paramount . on saturday night , two of mr . netanyahu ’ s far - right coalit partner — bezalel smotrich and itamar ben - gvir — threaten to quit hi govern should he move forward with the propos . mr . ben - gvir label the term of the agreement a “ total defeat ” and a “ victori for terror . ” if both of their parti left hi coalit , it could mark the end of mr . netanyahu ’ s govern . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis