advertis support by protest march through campu , pitch tent and occupi variou quad in demonstr that becam confront at time . transcript “ are you ok , are you ok ? ” “ don ’ t hit him . don ’ t hit . ” “ wrong person , wrong person , wrong person . ” “ i wa just hold you . ” byjonathan wolfeandjil cowan report from lo angel pro - palestinian demonstr at the univers of california , lo angel , clash with law enforc offic on monday , sometim physic , as they attempt to occupi outdoor area and re - establish a protest encamp in the last day of the spring quarter . more than 20 of the protest were arrest on monday night and were releas after be given misdemeanor citat for disrupt the campu . the demonstr began earlier monday in the form of a funer process , wind it way through campu as protest read the name of palestinian kill dure the israel - hama war . it wa the latest indic that protest intend to remain vocal , ahead of commenc ceremoni later thi week and a wednesday decis from the univers of california regent about who u . c . l . a . ’ s next chancellor will be . the univers ha experienc a tumultu spring . violent attack by support of israel began on the night of april 30 , follow about a day later by the dismantl of a pro - palestinian encamp , involv hundr of arrest . administr had allow that encamp to stand for day , but on monday , score of polic offic and privat secur guard move in swiftli . in one instanc , they rush in to confront protest who tri to barricad themselv in a courtyard . in anoth instanc , two offic point nonleth weapon toward protest as anoth demonstr wa be arrest and taken into a campu build . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis