israel - hamaswar sinc israel invad gaza , the sde teiman militari base ha fill with blindfold , handcuf detaine , held without charg or legal represent . the new york time visit part of the sde teiman base , which ha becom synonym with the detent of gazan , in may . credit ... avishag shaar - yashuv for the new york time support by bypatrick kingsleyandbil shbair patrick kingsley , from israel , and bilal shbair , from gaza , spent three month interview isra soldier who work at sde teiman and palestinian held there . patrick kingsley visit the site . the men sat in row , handcuf and blindfold , unabl to see the isra soldier who stood watch over them from the other side of a mesh fenc . they were bar from talk more loudli than a murmur , and forbidden to stand or sleep except when author . a few knelt in prayer . one wa be inspect by a paramed . anoth wa briefli allow to remov hi handcuff to wash himself . the hundr of other gazan detaine sat in silenc . they were all cut off from the outsid world , prevent for week from contact lawyer or rel . thi wa the scene one afternoon in late may at a militari hangar insid sde teiman , an armi base in southern israel that ha becom synonym withth detentionof gazan palestinian . most gazan captur sinc the start of the war on oct . 7 have been brought to the site for initi interrog , accord to the isra militari . the militari , which ha not previous grant access to the media , allow the new york time to briefli see part of the detent facil as well as to interview it command and other offici , on condit of preserv their anonym . onc an obscur barrack , sde teiman is now a makeshift interrog site and a major focu of accus that the isra militari hasmistr detaine , includ peopl later determin to have no tie to hama or other arm group . in interview , former detaine describ beat and other abus in the facil . field hospit detaine registr gate to detent area base entranc detent hangar sde teiman detaine search upon arriv west bank gaza strip israel sde teiman west bank gaza strip israel field hospit detaine registr gate to detent area base entranc detent hangar detaine search upon arriv sourc : satellit imageri from planet lab from april 18 , 2024 we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis