advertis support by new york citi will give school the option to send eighth - grader on field trip to the museum of jewish heritag as part of an effort to address antisemit . byemma g . fitzsimmon as tension continu to simmer over the israel - hama war , new york citi offici have embrac a privat fund initi to send all eighth grader in public and charter school to visit the museum of jewish heritag . the program , part of a $ 2 . 5 million public - privat partnership to address antisemit , will be seed with $ 1 million from a foundat run by jon gray , the presid of the invest firm blackston . the citywid field trip plan , which wa announc on thursday , will center on the museum ’ s effort to educ younger visitor about the holocaust . the initi come as school grappl with question about how to approach the israel - hama war and what to teach about the histori of the conflict . it will be option for school and will start thi fall . inplac like california , there have beenpush for teach pro - palestinian lessonsin school . leader in new york citi ’ s school system , which is particularli divers , with ten of thousand of jewish , muslim and arab student , are move to offernew curriculum materi about antisemit and islamophobia . new york is one of nearli two dozen state that are requir to teach student about the holocaust , andlawmak includ $ 500 , 000 in the state budgetthi year to review and updat holocaust curriculum in school . the field trip program wa creat by juli menin , a jewish citi councilwoman from manhattan whosemoth and grandmoth surviv the holocaustin hungari . she said that she wa worri about a rise in antisemit attack in the citi . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis