as student in columbia ’ s class of 2024 receiv their diploma , mani of them were grappl with what intens activ on campu would mean to their futur . at barnard colleg , mariam sissoko , the student govern presid , began to question the valu of alway follow the rule . credit ... ahm gaber for the new york time support by byemma goldberg emma goldberg spent the week lead up to graduat interview more than a dozen student across columbia ’ s and barnard ’ s campus and attend their graduat . stand on the stage at radio citi music hall , mariam sissoko began to speak in a voic trembl , ever so slightli . grow up in philadelphia , sissoko wa outspoken , a high achiev , captain of the high school debat team . in other word , just the sort of person who would go to barnard colleg , run for student govern and wind up give a graduat speech befor an audienc of 4 , 700 univers offici , classmat and parent . sissoko , 22 , who use nonbinari pronoun , had been warn by administr not to deviat from the speech they had turn in week earlier . but that speech wa written befor a pro - palestinian encamp sprang up on the main lawn of columbia ( barnard ’ s sibl school ) , befor student occupi an academ build , hamilton hall , and the polic made more than100arrest , befor the campu becam a locu of anger over the more than 35 , 000peopl killedin gaza dure the war and of fear over risingantisemit . now , on graduat day , sissoko put those warn from administr asid . “ to stand on thi stage today is a privileg , ” sissoko said . “ it is a privileg that over 15 , 000 children in gaza will never receiv . ” sissoko ’ s classmat broke into applaus . on sissoko ’ s lapel wa a poppi , meant to honor a 6 - year - old palestinian girl kill dure the war and a 10 - month - old isra babi taken hostag by hama . “ i know that there are countless poppi with the name of children in gaza who have been kill , ” sissoko continu . “ they will walk across thi stage with us . ” as sissoko paus , classmat seat in the audienc began to sing an anthem that wa popular dure the civil right movement and that pro - palestinian protest at columbia had now taken up : “ we shall not , we shall not be move . ” from the row of famili seat came cri of “ boo ! , ” a choru that grew louder as the student kept sing . an autom voic came over the loudspeak : “ today ’ s speaker share person view , which may not reflect the view and valu of barnard colleg . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis