advertis support by critic ’ s notebook commenc is the rare american ritual that still ha rule . that ’ s whi it ’ s ripe for disrupt . byjason farago recycl robe , procession march , silver pen from tiffani : it is graduat season in america . may bring a nationwid festiv of youth , with root stretch back to befor the foundat of the republ , and though mani colleg commenc thi month have taken place under polic surveil amid student outcri , the ceremoni have gone on . there are more than three centuri of preced for graduat ritual — for it dress , for it speech , and for it disturb . if commenc is ripe for contest ( the back turn on the speaker , the kaffiyeh replac the point sash ) , that ’ s becaus it ’ s one of the veri last venu in which american show a commit tohoww do thing , and not just what we say and record . i am alway a littl surpris that univers have hung onto these habit , almost uniqu longstand . thi is a countri where veri littl endur . you can arriv at the met gala half - nake . you can play bach or beyoncé at a funer . but graduat still ha rule . the student graduat from four - year colleg and univers thi month began their studi , for the most part , in pandem year zero . they miss , in 2020 , the walk across the footbal field or the auditorium stage to collect their high school diploma , and as the war in gaza continu to inflam campus some are face disarray again . columbia univers , which call in the new york polic depart to oust pro - palestinian student demonstr , broke it universitywid commenc into smaller chunk . emori univers move it ceremoni off campu . none ha been outright cancel , though . it take a lot to cancel a graduat . at harvard , wherehundr of studentswalk out of thi year ’ s main ceremoni , outbreak of smallpox meant no commenc in 1752 , 1757 ( theseven year ’ wardidn ’ t help that year ) , and 1764 . revolutionari hostil cancel the commenc of 1774 - 78 and 1780 , but harvard would not miss a commenc again until 2020 . the ceremoni took place through the civil war and two world war , and it went ahead in 1970 , after nation guardsmen shot and kill four student at kent state who were protest the war in vietnam . ( demonstr did cancel graduat at boston univers , hunter colleg and other school ; kent state ’ swa scale down . ) in harvard yard that june , graduat protest the war by refus to don cap and gown , or els by wear white armband over their robe . local demonstr with a bullhorn occupi the dai to demand low - incom hous in cambridg . student heard duel orat that denounc the nixon administr and student for a democrat societi . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis