middl eastcrisi advertis here ’ s a closer look at the clash between israel and the lebanes militia hezbollah , which have rais fear of a broader middl east conflict . byeuan wardandmatthew mpoke bigg israel and hezbollah have trade fire across the lebanes border sinc the start of the war in gaza , with more than 150 , 000 peopl on both side of the boundaryforc to flee their home . but the intens of the attack ha increas in recent day , lead to fear of a full - scale waron anoth front . thi week , prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel threaten further militari action to ensur the return ofcivilian to commun in northern israel . here are some key question about the conflict and where it might be head : hezbollah , apow lebanes militia and polit movement , launch attack into israel on oct . 8 , answer call by hama to open a second front a day after the palestinian arm group that rule gaza led a deadli assault on israel . both hezbollah and hama are back by iran . hezbollah ’ s leader , hassan nasrallah , ha said that hi group is tri to pin israel ’ s troop along the border and limit it capac to attack hama in gaza . hezbollah ’ s conflict with israel goe back decad . israel ha invad lebanon three time in the last 50 year , most recent in 2006 , when the two side foughta monthlong warthat kill more than 1 , 000 peopl in lebanon , mostli civilian , and more than 150 in israel , mostli soldier . the current round of fight mark the most seriou escal sinc then . israel in februari launch itsdeepest strikesinto lebanon in year , hit the bekaa valley in respons to a surfac - to - air missil attack that down an isra drone over southern lebanon . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis