israel - hamaswar advertis a small number of truck carri desper need food head for gaza citi , but at least some were swarm and loot by peopl along the way . byaaron boxermanandadam rasgon report from jerusalem onli a trickl of aid manag on monday to reach the desper hungri peopl of the northern gaza strip , where the unit nation ha warn that hundr of thousand of palestinian face a grow threat of famin after nearli five month of fight and blockad . fifteen truck were dispatch overnight to northern gaza as part of a relief effort involv palestinian businessmen , accord to cogat , the isra militari bodi that regul aid to the palestinian . but at least five of those were loot along the way , accord to an isra offici who wa not author to comment publicli , and so spoke on condit of anonym . it wa unclear exactli how mani of the truck reach their intend destin , gaza citi ’ s zeitoun neighborhood . izzat aqel , a palestinian businessman involv in the oper , said he aim to send an addit 30 truck with food relief to northern gaza on monday night . aid offici have warn that palestinian in gaza could be on the brink of famin unless relief is substanti step up , with over 500 , 000 peopl alreadi face a dire lack of food . one in six children under the age of 2 in gaza is acut malnourish , accord to the unit nation . tedro adhanom ghebreyesu , the director gener of the world health organ , said visit to hospit in the north by agenc offici — the first sinc earli octob — found sever level of malnutrit and “ children die of starvat . ” the dire condit have prompt crowd of desper peopl to swarm aid truck and contribut to a bloodi scene last week , when isra troop open fire on palestinian who had gather en mass around a convoy of truck that had enter northern gaza . over 100 palestinian were kill , mani by gunfir , accord to palestinian health offici . the isra militari said the troop had fire on member of the crowd who approach them in a threaten manner and attribut most of the death to a stamped around the convoy . in the wake of the bloodsh at the convoy , israel ha face even greater intern pressur to facilit more aid for gazan , particularli in the north . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis