israel - hamaswar advertis the temporari pier is one of few remain entri point for aid shipment sinc israel began an incurs into rafah , in southern gaza , earlier thi month . bygaya gupta none of the food and suppli that have enter the gaza strip through a u . s .- built temporari pier in it first five day of oper have been distribut to palestinian by aid organ , gen . patrick s . ryder , the pentagon spokesman , said at a news brief on tuesday . gener ryder said that 569 metric ton of aid had made it onto gaza ’ s shore , but that those suppli had yet to be parcel out by humanitarian organ . on saturday , hungri crowdsloot sever world food program truckstransport aid that had been deliv through the pier , prompt the agenc to suspend deliveri of aid arriv at the pier on sunday and monday . gener ryder also said that after discuss with israel and the unit nation , altern rout for the safe movement of staff and cargo had been establish . the aid is now be taken to warehous for further distribut , he said . “ we do anticip that assist will be distribut in the come day , of cours , condit permit , ” he said . the temporari pier is one of few remain entri point for aid shipment after israel ’ s incurs into rafah , in southern gaza , earlier thi month . israel not onli seiz the rafah cross on the border with egypt but also close the kerem shalom cross into israel . those were the two main entri point for truck convoy carri aid overland . though israel ha sinc reopen kerem shalom , onli 69 truck have enter gaza through it in the past two week , accord to u . n . data . that is far fewer than the number of aid truck that were enter through the two southern border cross befor isra troop went into rafah . that number peak at 340 truck a day . the 569 metric ton that have arriv at the pier so far are a fraction of the amount of aid that wa enter gaza through land rout befor israel seiz the rafah cross . the unit nation estim that truck carri food to gaza have been load with roughli 15 to 30 metric ton each . the pier system , which cost an estim $ 300 million , becam oper on thursday , after it wa connect to the mediterranean shore in central gaza . on friday , the first truck of aid beganmov ashor . so far , howev , the oper ha fallen short of it goal of bring in 90 truck a day and eventu ramp up to 150 truck . gener ryder said that more aid wa on the way but that the u . s . militari wa take a “ crawl , walk , run ” approach , work out the logist hurdl and take into account secur condit . “ so i think you ’ re go to see as we work togeth the amount of aid increas , and the abil to get it distribut increas , ” he said . gaya guptai a report cover break news and a member of the 2023 - 24time fellowship class , a program for journalist earli in their career . more about gaya gupta advertis