israel - hamaswar advertis support by deliv suppli into gaza , especi the north , ha taken on increas urgenc as the unit nation ha warn that mani gazan are on the edg of famin . byadam rasgonandhiba yazbek adam rasgon report from jerusalem and hiba yazbek from amman , jordan day after an aid deliveri in gaza turn into a deadli disast , israel push ahead with anoth convoy bound for northern gaza on sunday , a palestinian businessman involv in the initi said , as the unit nation warn that death of children and infant are like to “ rapidli increas ” if food and medic suppli are not deliv immedi . izzat aqel , the businessman , said the renew aid deliveri effort on sunday came after onli one of at least 16 truck carri suppli to the north a day earlier made it to gaza citi . the rest , he said , had been surround by desper gazan and empti in the nuseirat neighborhood in central gaza . cogat , the isra agenc respons for coordin aid deliveri into gaza , said on x on sunday that 277 truck enter gaza , what the agenc said wa the highest number of truck to enter the enclav in a singl day sinc the start of the war . it wa unclear how mani of those truck reach northern gaza . deliv suppli into gaza , especi the north , ha taken on increas urgenc in recent day as the unit nation ha warn that mani gazan are on the edg of famin . isra offici have work in recent day with multipl gazan businessmen to organ privat aid convoy . but a convoy that arriv in gaza citi befor dawn on thursday end in devast . more than 100 palestinian were killedaft mani thousand of peopl mass around truck laden with food and suppli , gazan health offici said . isra and palestinian offici and witnessesoff sharpli diverg accountsof the chao . wit describ extens shoot by isra forc , and doctor at gaza hospit said most of the casualti were from gunfir . the isra militari said most of the victim were trampl in a crush of peopl tri to seiz the cargo , although isra offici acknowledg that troop had open fire at member of the crowd who , the armi said , had approach “ in a manner that endang them . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis