advertis support by the republican - written bill , which the white hous strongli oppos , stand littl chanc of becom law after lawmak fail to reach a bipartisan deal on penal measur . byrobert jimison report from the capitol the hous vote mostli along parti line on tuesday to impos sweep sanction on offici at the intern crimin court in a rebuk of effort by the court ’ s top prosecutor tocharg top isra leaderswith war crime in connect with the offens against hama . the bill would compel presid biden to restrict entri into the unit state , revok visa and impos financi restrict on anyon at the court involv in tri to investig , arrest , detain or prosecut “ protect person , ” or alli of the unit state . it would also target anyon who provid “ financi , materi or technolog support ” to those effort . mr . biden ’ s advis said he wa “ strongli oppos ” to the measur becaus it would impos sanction on such a broad swath of offici , includ court staff member and ani wit involv in a potenti case . but it reflect broad bipartisan anger in washington after the court ’ s top prosecutor announc late last month that he wouldseek charg against both isra and hama leader . the g . o . p .- written bill pass by a vote of 247 to 155 , with two republican vote present and 42 democrat cross parti line in support . repres chip roy , republican of texa and the author of the bill , said it wa a necessari step to stop the intern court from act beyond it jurisdict and to address fear that action taken against isra offici could be a prelud to action against american offici . “ what happen here is go to be come at us and our countri , ” mr . roy said on tuesday . “ that ’ s whi it ’ s import to speak with one voic , with author , with forc . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis