advertis support by a tent new contract at an ohio batteri maker on monday wa big for presid biden ’ s e . v . transit , but for some , the victori wa upstag by the u . a . w . ’ s activ on colleg campus . byjonathan weisman the unit automobil worker ha score a remark string of victori — most recent , a landmark contract on monday for electr vehicl batteri worker — as it new leadership strive to restor the union ’ s imag as the voic of an icon segment of the american work class . but compet for headlin is a part of the union that repres ten of thousand of univers worker , which at the moment is singularli focus on a mission far from build car and truck : end israel ’ s war in gaza . u . a . w . leader insist that they can smooth out the disson between the dual thrust of u . a . w . activ — one on colleg campus , the other on red - state assembl line . but it will not be easi . the u . a . w . sign that are crowd pro - palestinian encamp on campus , furnish by the union ’ s intern headquart in detroit , have alon struck sour note among some union member uncomfort with such outward sign of polit on such a fraught topic . “ it ’ s so bad for the union , ” said isaac altman , a u . a . w . member and staff lawyer in the famili court bureau of the legal aid societi of nassau counti , n . y . , who ha clash with hi local over a pro - palestin resolut he call “ slightli more radic than hezbollah . ” ( the resolut call for an immedi ceas - fire and an end to “ the occup and blockad of palestinian land , sea and air by isra militari forc . ” ) the competit for attent may onli get wors . on monday , union negoti reach a tent agreement with gener motor that could prove to be a landmark in the auto industri ’ s transit to electr vehicl . it would give huge wage increas and far more safeti protect toemploye at an e . v . batteri plant in lordstown , ohio , solid evid that presid biden ’ s effort to combat climat chang could fulfil hi promis that a green futur will not leav worker behind . “ it ’ s a huge deal , ” said dave green , the region director of the u . a . w . in ohio and indiana . “ we ’ ve been tri to have a just transit and stop thi race to the bottom for wage for e . v . worker . thi contract is veri excit . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis