middl eastcrisi advertis support by iraqi want to help palestinian but say they are still recov from their own war and fear play host to a proxi fight between iran and the unit state . byalissa j . rubin report from baghdad iraqi have known the bitter tast of war so intim and frequent over the past 40 year that they say they can feel viscer the suffer of palestinian in gaza . they rememb the dread whistl of a shell befor impact , the fear of a knock at the door bring word of a love one ’ s loss , the stench of blood dri on concret . thi wa daili life for mani iraqi for year as an insurg struggl against the american occup and a civil war between sunni and shia muslim brought destruct and death to their neighborhood , shatter famili and left behind countless widow and orphan . those memori initi prompt thousand of peopleto join demonstrationson the street of iraq ’ s citi to show their solidar with the palestinian caus . but as the war in gaza drag on , those display of support fade . “ you want to help , ” said yasmin salih , a 25 - year old dental student , refer to the plight of the palestinian in gaza , “ but you can ’ t becaus your own bucket of troubl is full . ” nowher is that sens more vivid than in baghdad ’ s histor adhamiyah neighborhood , where most peopl follow the sunni branch of islam — as do most palestinian . a number here took up arm against the american militari occup of iraq that began in 2003 , and they view the isra assault on gaza as a similar fight against an occupi forc . mani peopl in the neighborhood cheer when they heard the news of the hama - led attack on israel on oct . 7 . but sinc then , the crowd have dwindl , partli becaus of a recognit that their effort could do littl to help palestinian , resid say . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis