israel - hamaswar advertis support by news analysi not on it own , in all likelihood . but it reflect a grow , global exasper with israel that might eventu lend momentum to a two - state solut . byrog cohen report from pari the decis byspain , norway and irelandto recogn an independ palestinian state reflect grow exasper with the israel of prime minist benjamin netanyahu , even from tradit friend , and suggest that intern pressur on him will grow . it doe not , howev , make it inevit that otherlarg european stateswil follow suit . thi year presid emmanuel macron of franc ha said such recognit is “ not a taboo , ” a posit reiter by the french foreign ministri on wednesday . in februari , david cameron , britain ’ s foreign secretari , said that such recognit “ can ’ t come at the start of the process , but it doesn ’ t have to be the veri end of the process . ” those were small step , although beyond anyth they have said previous , but far short of recognit of a palestinian state itself . if europ were unifi , with the major state join in recognit , leav the unit state isol in reject such a step , then it could have a greater impact , but that stage is far from be reach . “ thi decis must be use , that is to say allow a decis step forward on the polit level , ” foreign minist stéphane séjourné said in a statement about potenti recognit . “ franc doe not consid that the condit have been met to date for thi decis to have a real impact on thi process . ” franc , in other word , will wait . so , too , will germani , whose support for israel , root in aton for the holocaust , is second onli to that of the unit state . the decis of spain , norway and ireland ha made one thing clear : there will be no european uniti , or at least align time , on the question of recognit of a palestinian state befor such a state exist on the ground . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis