israel - hamaswar advertis support by news analysi the propos back by presid biden is deepli polit and aim at stop the war at least for now . but israel reject a perman ceas - fire and hama ha it own reason for reluct . bysteven erlang steven erlang , a former jerusalem bureau chief who ha spent mani week in the middl east sinc oct . 7 , report from jerusalem . even as hama and the isra govern appear to be inch closer to a ceas - fire agreement , analyst are deepli skeptic that the side will ever implement a deal that goe beyond a temporari truce . at issu is a three - phase agreement , propos by israel and back by the unit state and some arab countri , which if fulli realiz could eventu see the total withdraw of isra troop from gaza , the return of all remain hostag captur in the oct . 7 attack and a reconstruct plan for the territori . but make it to that finish line is imposs if the parti are unwil to even start the race or to agre on where it should end . fundament , the wrangl is not just about how long a ceas - fire in gaza should last or at what point it should be implement , but whether israel can ever accept a long - term truce as long as hama retain signific control . for israel to agre to hama ’ s demand for a perman ceas - fire from the start , it must acknowledg that hama will remain undestroy and will play a role in the territori ’ s futur , condit israel ’ s govern can not abid . on the flip side , hama say it won ’ t consid a temporari ceas - fire without the guarante of a perman one that effect ensur it surviv , even at the cost of countless more palestinian live , lest israel restart the war onc it hostag are return . yet after eight month of a grind war , there are sign that the side could be move closer to the first propos phase : a six - week condit ceas - fire . while that step is hardli guarante , get to the plan ’ s second phase , which envisag a perman cessat of hostil and the full withdraw of isra troop from gaza , is even more unlik , analyst said . “ it is wrong to see thi propos as more than a stopgap , ” said natan sach , director of the center for middl east polici at the brook institut . “ most import , thi plan doesn ’ t answer the fundament question of who rule gaza after the conflict . thi is a ceas - fire plan , not a day - after plan . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis