israel - hamaswar advertis the u . s . secretari of state is expect to visit israel , egypt , qatar and jordan over three day . bymichael crowley report from washington secretari of state antoni j . blinken plan to visit israel and three arab state next week , as the u . s . press for a ceas - fire deal between israel and hama to end the war in gaza . mr . blinken is schedul to travel to israel , egypt , qatar and jordan from monday through wednesday , matthew miller , the state depart spokesman , said in a statement on friday . the trip , which will be hi eighth visit to the region sinc the oct . 7 hama - led attack that set off the war , come at a particularli tens moment . the biden administr is tri hard to stop the fight in gaza in hope of free isra — and some isra - american — hostag held by hama and end a conflict that ha exact a grievou toll in live , physic devast most of gaza and creat polit pressur on presid biden to restrict u . s . arm deliveri to israel . relat between the biden administr and prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel are particularli fraught in the wake of mr . biden ’ s decis to hold up the deliveri of american 2 , 000 - pound bomb , a move meant to ensur that they are not use in the sort of “ full - scale invas ” of the gazan citi of rafah that mr . biden ha said he oppos . mr . blinken ’ s travel also come as worri are rise that fight might escal along israel ’ s northern border with the lebanon - base milit group hezbollah , which is back by iran . the exchang of fire have prompt evacu on both side of the border . a ceas - fire would “ unlock the possibl of achiev calm along israel ’ s northern border — so both displac isra and lebanes famili can return to their home , ” mr . miller ’ s statement said . qatar and egypt have each play role as mediat between hama and israel , which do not negoti directli . israel recent strain relat with egypt byseiz “ tactic control ” of a buffer zone on the egypt - gaza border , known as the philadelphi corridor . in jordan , mr . blinken is expect to attend a confer on the humanitarian crisi in gaza co - host by jordan , egypt , and the unit nation . michael crowleycov the state depart and u . s . foreign polici for the time . he ha report from nearli three dozen countri and often travel with the secretari of state . more about michael crowley advertis