israel - hamaswar advertis israel said it struck three classroom use by 20 to 30 palestinian milit . gazan health author said that mani women and children were among the dozen kill . bybil shbair , aaron boxerman , erika solomonandabu bakr bashir a day after isra forcesbomb a u . n . school complexin central gaza that had becom a shelter for displac palestinian , some of the fact remain unclear or under content . israel said it struck three classroom use by 20 to 30 palestinian milit , includ some who particip in the oct . 7 hama - led attack on israel , and that it wa unawar of civilian casualti . gazan health author said that among the dozen of peopl kill , mani were children and women . here is what we know and do not know . the multistori build wa one of sever that made up the unrwa nuseirat boy ’ preparatori school . it wa one of the mani school in gaza run by the main u . n . agenc for palestinian refuge and their descend . like all ofth territori ’ s school , it stop oper as a school in octob , after hama led an assault on israel , and israel began it retaliatori bomb campaign . and like mani of them , it becam crowd with peopl who , displac by the war from home in other part of gaza , sought shelter in school , hospit and other institut they hope would be less like to be bomb . philipp lazzarini , the director of the u . n . aid agenc for palestinian refuge , said 6 , 000 peopl had been live in the school . about three - quarter of gaza ’ s roughli 2 . 2 million peopl have fled their home , mani of them multipl time . the isra militari ha refer to the school in nuseirat as a milit base , say that fighter for hama and palestinian islam jihad use three of it classroom to plan and conduct oper against israel . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis