israel - hamaswar advertis support by it wa one of four convoy put togeth by local palestinian businessmen thi week at the behest of isra offici , who promis to provid secur . byaaron boxerman , adam rasgonandandi newman the gaza aid convoy that end in bloodsh thi weekwa organ by israel itselfa part of a newli hatch partnership with local palestinian businessmen , accord to isra offici , palestinian businessmen and western diplomat . israel ha been involv in at least four such aid convoy to northern gaza over the past week . it undertook the effort , isra offici told two western diplomat , to fill a void in assist to northern gaza , where famin loom as intern aid group have suspend most oper , cite isra refus to greenlight aid truck and rise lawless . the diplomat spoke on condit of anonym given the sensit of the matter . isra offici reach out to multipl gazan businessmen and ask them to help organ privat aid convoy to the north , two of the businessmen said , while israel would provid secur . theunit nation ha warnedthat more than 570 , 000 gazan — particularli in northern gaza — are face “ catastroph level of depriv and starvat ” after nearli five month of war and an almost complet isra blockad of the territori follow the oct . 7 attack led by hama . some resid have resort to raid the pantri of neighbor who fled their home , while other have been grind up anim feed for flour . u . n . aid convoy carri essenti good to northern gaza have been loot — either by civilian fear starvat or organ gang — amid the anarchi that ha follow israel ’ s ground invas . “ my famili , friend , and neighbor are die from hunger , ” said jawdat khoudari , a palestinian businessman who help organ some of the truck involv in the isra relief initi . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis