for the first time sinc the vietnam war , univers demonstr have led to a rethink of who set the term for languag in academia . a pro - palestinian protest on columbia univers ’ s campu thi spring . credit ... mark peterson / redux support by byemili bazelonandcharl homan emili bazelon is a staff writer for the magazin who also teach at yale law school . charl homan cover polit for the time . he visit the columbia campu repeatedli dure the demonstr , counter - demonstr and polic action in april . earli on the afternoon of nov . 10 , jameel jaffer , the director of the knight first amend institut at columbia univers , wa on hi way into a meet in low librari , the dome neoclass build at the center of campu , when an administr pull him asid . the school , the administr said , wa about to announc the suspens of the campu chapter of the organ student for justic in palestin and jewish voic for peac , an alli anti - zionist organ — a move that alarm jaffer given the fraught polit of the moment . the day after hama ’ s brazen oct . 7 attack on militari and civilian target in israel , the s . j . p . and j . v . p . chapter co - sign an open letter declar “ full solidar with palestinian resist . ” the letter describ the attack as “ an unpreced histor moment for the palestinian of gaza ” and a “ counteroffens against their settler - coloni oppressor . ” it would be tantamount to “ ask for quiet submiss to system violenc ” for anyon to call for peac now , after year of isra violenc and militari campaign against palestinian . the group issu a list of demand to the univers — divest from compani do busi with the isra govern , the end of columbia ’ s affili with tel aviv univers and a recognit of palestinian “ exist and human ” — and announc a demonstr on oct . 12 on the step of low librari . they sign off : “ see you thursday . ” the oct . 12 demonstr appear to be in violat of campu rule , which requir student group to give 10 day ’ notic for gather in public space , but columbia had not been enforc such requir amid the emot respons to the hama attack and israel ’ s retaliatori bomb in the gaza strip . “ we got some pushback from the univers , ” recal cameron jone , an organ of the j . v . p . chapter , “ but not insan pushback . ” as the sit - in , teach - in and die - in continu , howev , that began to chang . pro - israel group held counterdemonstr , and tension built on columbia ’ s small , enclos central campu . “ in the past , demonstr were basic student protest against the establish , and that wa , you know , unidirect and fairli straightforward , ” the presid of columbia , minouch shafik , said in late may , in her first interview sinc decemb . “ in thi crisi , ” she went on , “ student are oppos to other student , faculti oppos to other faculti . and those intern dynam and tension have made thi much more difficult than past episod . ” outsid columbia ’ s librari , sever isra student were physic attack after they confront anoth student tear down poster of isra held hostag by hama . student wear hijab and kaffiyeh report be call “ jew killer ” and terrorist . by oct . 25 , when s . j . p . and j . v . p . stage a walkout of colleg class , “ our relationship with the administr wa realli crumbl , ” jone recal . two day later , israel ’ s invas of gaza began . on the night of nov . 8 , with anoth demonstr plan for the next day on the step outsid low , a faculti advis told the organ that they were out of complianc with school rule and ask them to postpon the event . theydid not , and the univers suspend them . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis