advertis support by with speech cancel , student at the cuni school of law ceremoni chant , carri sign and walk out . bymaia coleman in some way , a walkout by pro - palestinian student at the citi univers of new york school of law ’ s commenc on thursday wa part of the uniqu polit moment that ha mark the class of 2024 ’ s graduat season at so mani univers . but cuni law student were also carri on someth of a graduat tradit at their school . student chant pro - palestinian messag , wave paint banner as they walk across the stage and turn their back to the law school ’ s dean , sudha setti , dure her remark onstag at the apollo theater in harlem . then , after the last degre had been confer , dozen of student rose from their seat and walk out , join by a hand of professor and guest . “ it remind me so much of whi i came to cuni law , ” ale humano , one of the graduat who walk out of the ceremoni , said . the walkout on thursday is not the first time that tension over israel have taken center stage dure a commenc ceremoni for the new york citi public law school . the school , which is known for foster public interest lawyer , ha been a hot spot for pro - palestinian activ for year , and it graduat ceremoni have recent becom the site of conflict over polit relat to israel . for the past two year , law school commenc speaker have made support for palestinian and opposit to israel a focu of their speech , elicit critic from public offici , who call the speech antisemit . in 2023 , fatima mousa moham , a yemeni immigr and an activist devot to the palestinian caus , denounc “ isra settler coloni ” in her address . the speech set off furiou coverag and a wave of public critic , includ from mayor eric adam , who spoke at the same ceremoni and condemn the speech ’ s “ divis . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis