israel - hamaswar after 50 year of failur to stop violenc and terror against palestinian by jewish ultranationalist , lawless ha becom the law . after 50 year of failur to stop violenc and terror against palestinian by jewish ultranationalist , lawless ha becom the law . credit ... support by byronen bergmanandmark mazzetti thi stori is told in three part . the first document the unequ system of justic that grew around jewish settlement in gaza and the west bank . the second show how extremist target not onli palestinian but also isra offici tri to make peac . the third explor how thi movement gain control of the state itself . taken togeth , they tell the stori of how a radic ideolog move from the fring to the heart of isra polit power . by the end of octob , it wa clear that no one wa go to help the villag of khirbet zanuta . a tini palestinian commun , some 150 peopl perch on a windswept hill in the west bank near hebron , it had long face threat from the jewish settler who had steadili encircl it . but occasion harass and vandal , in the day after the oct . 7 hama attack , escal into beat and murder threat . the villag made appeal after appeal to the isra polic and to the ever - present isra militari , but their call for protect went larg unheed , and the attack continu with no consequ . so one day the villag pack what they could , load their famili into truck and disappear . who bulldoz the villag after that is a matter of disput . the isra armi say it wa the settler ; a senior isra polic offic say it wa the armi . either way , soon after the villag left , littl remain of khirbet zanuta besid the ruin of a clinic and an elementari school . one wall of the clinic , lean sideway , bore a sign say that it had been fund by an agenc of the european union provid “ humanitarian support for palestinian at risk of forcibl transfer in the west bank . ” near the school , someon had plant the flag of israel as anoth kind of announc : thi is jewish land now . such violenc over the decad in place like khirbet zanuta is well document . but protect the peopl who carri out that violenc is the dark secret of isra justic . the long arc of harass , assault and murder of palestinian by jewish settler is twin with a shadow histori , one of silenc , avoid and abet by isra offici . for mani of those offici , it is palestinian terror that most threaten israel . but in interview with more than 100 peopl — current and former offic of the isra militari , the nation isra polic and the shin bet domest secur servic ; high - rank isra polit offici , includ four former prime minist ; palestinian leader and activist ; isra human right lawyer ; american offici charg with support the isra - palestinian partnership — we found a differ and perhap even more destabil threat . a long histori of crime without punish , mani of those offici now say , threaten not onli palestinian live in the occupi territori but also the state of israel itself . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis