advertis support by “ just becaus you have the right to say someth doesn ’ t mean it ’ s right to say , ” said carol christ , who is retir as chancellor at the end of thi month . bykurt streeter report from the univers of california , berkeley . wave of boo , angri chant and the steadi rhythm of feet pound on metal seat were upend the graduat ceremoni at the univers of california , berkeley . “ viva , viva palestina ! ” student sang out . “ hey , hey , ho , ho , israel ’ s apartheid ha got to go ! ” it wa the soundtrack of thi year ’ s antiwar protest , voic on the morn of may 11 by hundr of cap - and - gown graduat , loud enough to nearli drown out the ceremoni ’ s offici speaker — and forc the event to halt . one minut pass . two minut . five . it look like berkeley ’ s 2024 commenc wa about to be cancel midstream . then , suddenli , surprisingli , the ceremoni resum . onc it wa over and most had left the school ’ s low - slung footbal stadium , berkeley ’ s chancellor , carol christ , sat near the podium in a fold chair . she is silver - hair and soft - spoken , a soon - to - retir 80 - year - old former english professor with an unusu background for the modern colleg presid : her view on free speech first crystal dure her year as a student protest in the turbul 1960 . when the demonstr forc the paus , had she consid end the event ? “ absolut not , ” dr . christ said . thi is berkeley , she said . “ we were alway go to power through . protest is part of our core . ” dr . christ ( her name rhyme with “ wrist ” ) plan to retir at the end of june . the first woman appoint to the job , she leav as the oldest chancellor in berkeley histori , and one of the oldest leader of an elit colleg campu in america . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis