israel - hamaswar advertis the move , though unlik to forc prime minist benjamin netanyahu from offic , expos the fractur within israel ’ s leadership eight month into the war in gaza . byadam rasgon report from jerusalem the isra politician benni gantz , a key member of the countri ’ s war cabinet , quit the govern on sunday over prime minist benjamin netanyahu ’ s handl of the war in gaza . the resign dealt a blow to the appear of uniti that mr . netanyahu wa abl to marshal at the start of the conflict and expos the divis at the top of the isra leadership over the futur of the war and it aftermath . mr . gantz , a centrist figur who last month threaten to resign unless mr . netanyahu address hi concern about how the war would end and what would follow it , said hi parti wa leav the emerg govern “ with a heavi but complet heart . ” he said that mr . netanyahu ’ s leadership wa “ prevent us from advanc to the real victori . ” the move is unlik to forc mr . netanyahu from offic — the prime minist ’ s govern will still hold a narrow major in israel ’ s parliament . mr . gantz ’ s exit come as frustrat mount over the failur to decis toppl hama or to bring home all the hostag held in gaza after the oct . 7 terrorist attack on southern israel . mr . netanyahu ha also face intern critic as the destruct and civilian casualti have mount in gaza . last month , mr . gantz set a saturday deadlin for mr . netanyahu to meet hi demand for answer on a host of issu , includ a plan to return hostag held in gaza . he schedul a news confer for saturday , but postpon hi remark after isra author announcedth rescu of four hostag . in televis remark on sunday even , mr . gantz offer hi view of a “ real victori , ” say it includ priorit the return of hostag over one ’ s polit surviv — a clear jab at the prime minist . he also said it would combin “ militari success ” with a diplomat initi , toppl hama and replac it with an altern govern . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis