for more audio journal and storytel , download new york time audio , a new io app avail for news subscrib . transcript thi transcript wa creat use speech recognit softwar . while it ha been review by human transcrib , it may contain error . pleas review the episod audio befor quot from thi transcript and email transcript @ nytim . com with ani question . from “ the new york time , ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis , and thi is “ the daili . ” [ music play ] earlier thi week , the top prosecutor of the intern crimin court request arrest warrant for israel ’ s prime minist and it defens minist . the move shock isra and set up a possibl showdown between the world ’ s top crimin court and israel , togeth with it biggest alli , the unit state . today , my colleagu , jerusalem bureau chief patrick kingsley , explain . [ music play ] it ’ s thursday , may 23rd . [ music play ] so , patrick , earlier thi week , there wa a pretti surpris announc by the intern crimin court in the hagu . it had to do with israel and hama . tell us what happen . well , on monday morn , we were all taken by surpris by an announc from the chief prosecutor at the icc , the intern crimin court , the top crimin court in the world . it tri individu accus of war crime . and the chief prosecutor announc that he wa request arrest warrant for five individu involv in the war between israel and hama for crime against human . three of them were from hama — yahya sinwar , the head of hama within gaza , the hama militari command , and the polit leader of hama , who ’ s base in qatar . but mayb the biggest news in thi announc wa that the chief prosecutor wa seek the arrest of two of israel ’ s top leader — benjamin netanyahu , the prime minist , and yoav gallant , the defens minist . and thi wa a massiv bombshel . these two men are leader from a major us alli . they ’ re in regular contact with the us govern , and they were be implicitli equat with the three top leader of an organ , hama , that mani consid a terrorist organ . and thi equat sent shockwav through isra societi and , inde , around the world . so thi is absolut remark , patrick . i mean , i , for one , wa quit surpris by see thi . i want to dig into it with you . so who is thi prosecutor behind these request for these warrant ? and how did he reach thi decis to go for them in the first place ? so the prosecutor ’ s name is karim khan , and he is a british lawyer , a british barrist . he is 54 . he ’ s led a veri impress career . he ha spent year work on human right case , both defend peopl and also prosecut in such case . he wa involv in tribun relat to the war surround the breakup of the former yugoslavia , rwanda . he investig islam state crime in iraq . and in 2021 , he is appoint the top prosecutor at the icc . and what are hi respons as top prosecutor ? well , it ’ s hi job to travel the world and investig alleg of human right abus , war crime , crime against human , and in the process , play a key role in decid who get prosecut at the intern crimin court . the icc and the icc prosecutor investig and tri peopl who would not be pursu by the judici system within their countri of origin . it step in when it seem like the domest author in ani given countri are not do their job . and last year , he famous went after presid putin in russia in connect with the war in ukrain . so at what point did thi prosecutor , karim khan , turn hi attent to israel and gaza ? well , he actual inherit an investig from hi predecessor that ’ s look at israel ’ s conduct and also that of hama dure a previou war in 2014 between the two side . but then that get supersed on octob 7th by the horror that we saw that day commit by hama and then by the scale and damag caus by israel ’ s bomb campaign in it counterattack . and we begin to see not onli revuls and horror at what hama had done in earli octob , but also grow critic and condemn of what israel and it air forc did in it respons . you ’ ll rememb that earlier thi year , the intern court of justic , a separ court also in the hagu , began to address claim that israel wa and is commit a genocid in gaza , a claim that israel strongli deni . right . that wa the case that south africa brought . we did an episod about that . ye , exactli . so as the world ’ s attent focus on thi new conflict , so doe karim khan ’ s . also today , the intern crimin court ’ s chief prosecutor , karim khan , qc , ha wrap up a visit to israel and the occupi west bank . khan ha visit the region to investig if war crime were commit on octob 7th . we start to see him arriv in israel visit some of the site that hama attack last year , talk to survivor , talk to leader , review secur camera footag , and so on . i have just come from the border of the rafah cross , and we could see gaza , at least we could see crane that were on the territori of gaza . and he also visit the rafah cross between egypt and gaza , talk to palestinian . at the ministri of justic in ramallah , the chief prosecutor of the world ’ s highest court . he goe to the isra occupi west bank , to ramallah , where the palestinian author is base , build up evid that led to thi announc on monday . [ music play ] today , i ’ m file applic for warrant of arrest befor pre - trial chamber i of the intern crimin court . and he make thi veri dramat announc in a video . my offic ha dilig collect evid and interview survivor and eyewit at the scene of at least six major attack locat . flank on each side by two of hi deputi . i have reason ground to believ that three senior leader of hama , yahya sinwar , moham deif and ismail haniyeh , bear crimin respons for the follow intern crime . and the accus that he make against the three hama leader focu on the violent action that hama took on octob 7th . extermin as a crime against human . murder as a crime against human . and he walk through a long list of charg stem from the extraordinari violenc dure that attack . the take of hostag as a war crime . rape and other act of sexual violenc dure captiv . and he say there are reason ground to believ that hostag taken from israel have been subject to sexual violenc , includ rape , while be held in captiv . and he cite assess of medic record , video , and documentari evid , as well as interview with victim and survivor . and i repeat and underlin my call for the immedi releas of all hostag taken from israel and for their immedi safe return to their famili . so thi prosecutor see the atroc on octob 7th and then what follow with hama take the hostag , abus them , as crime against human . that ’ s what it amount to in hi view ? exactli . and what about the charg against the isra ? these are slightli differ . isra prime minist benjamin netanyahu and minist of defens yoav gallant bear crimin respons for the follow intern crime . obvious , a lot of the outcri and horror at the war in gaza ha center around israel ’ s airstrik that have kill ten of thousand of gazan . but karim khan focus not on the militari action of benjamin netanyahu and yoav gallant , hi defens minist , but on the accus of — starvat of civilian as a method of warfar . — starvat . the idea that israel ha allegedli sought to restrict and block aid deliveri , food suppli to gaza with the intent to starv the civilian popul there . these individu , through a common plan , have systemat depriv the civilian popul of gaza of object indispens to human surviv . and that ’ s primarili base on the fact that for the first two week of the war , until octob 21st or so , israel block all aid entri to gaza after yoav gallant , the defens minist , one of these two isra whose arrest mr . khan seek , said that he wa impos a total sieg on gaza — no food , no fuel , no electr . and while that total sieg wa eas toward the end of octob , khan also note that there have been continu restrict on essenti suppli , like food and medicin , ever sinc . that conduct took place alongsid attack that kill civilian , the obstruct of aid deliveri by humanitarian organ , and attack on aid worker that forc mani of those same humanitarian organ to either ceas oper or limit their life - save effort in gaza . the implic is that the famin that he say is present in some area of gaza and immin in other area is in part the respons of netanyahu and gallant . that starvat ha caus and continu to caus death , malnutrit , dehydr , and profound suffer among the popul . my offic charg netanyahu and gallant as co - perpetr and as superior in the commiss of these alleg crime . whi is the focu of these charg starvat ? i mean , given that the airstrik , as you say , were in mani way realli the focu of thi war and certainli the focu of the world ’ s attent on thi war , the civilian death from the militari oper . whi starvat ? karim khan doe not explain whi he focus on starvat rather than israel ’ s militari tactic , which he mention onli in pass . but legal expert have said that it ’ s easier to prove that starvat wa use as a method of warfar than it is to prove that there have been ani specif crime involv in ani specif airstrik . and that ’ s becaus under the rule of war and intern law , it ’ s not necessarili illeg in and of itself to kill civilian dure wartim . if a militari assess , with the help of militari lawyer , that the like civilian death toll caus by that strike is proport to the valu of the militari target , then that , in mani case , will be in accord with the rule of war . if a militari can prove that sens of proportion , then it ’ s actual quit hard to prove that there wa ani crime commit in the process . so in other word , militari action are often weigh quit care . in the case of , say , a modern militari like israel ’ s or the unit state , there are lawyer that look at these thing . it ’ s not necessarili so easi to prove that someth wa disproportion and should be consid a crime . exactli . wherea with the crime of starvat , legal expert say that it ’ s potenti easier to prove that there wa some wrongdo there becaus yoav gallant , the isra defens minist , went on record in a public statement , and he announc that there would be a total sieg on the territori of gaza . and that wa follow by an action , the action of close off gaza ’ s border for the next two week , and no aid wa allow in . dure that time , there were restrict on electr , water , fuel , as well as food . and that ’ s whi legal expert think that karim khan ha gone after israel with the crime of starvat rather than focus on their militari oper . but i suppos just think about our coverag , patrick , and the convers you and i have had , famin and starvat and a civilian popul in extrem distress trap in a small piec of territori is also not a small thing , right ? that is also someth that make sens that the court would be consid . absolut , it ’ s a huge thing . peopl don ’ t have to be hit by an airstrik to be live through an absolut catastroph situat . so these charg realli seem to spell bad news for israel and for these two isra leader , netanyahu and gallant . and it ’ s remark becaus these are men who , as you say , are some of america ’ s closest alli . i mean , they ’ re , you know , at the pentagon . they ’ re have meet with presid biden . and now , the chief prosecutor of the icc is say that they are war crimin . ye , it is a veri dramat moment in the view of some peopl , a turn point , and certainli , we can say that it is one of the harshest rebuk of israel ’ s wartim conduct sinc octob 7th . [ music play ] but within israel , there ’ s been a veri differ reaction . and it ’ s not all bad news for benjamin netanyahu . [ music play ] we ’ ll be right back . [ music play ] so , patrick , what do isra make of thi announc ? within israel , the reaction ha been veri differ . whether it ’ s netanyahu ’ s alli or hi critic , there ha been almost uniform outrag that the prosecutor for the icc would make these accus . and it mean that at a time of rise domest critic of prime minist netanyahu across the polit spectrum , with onli a veri few except , everyon ha ralli behind netanyahu and gallant . despit the fact that netanyahu is increasingli unpopular and even within hi own govern , there have been grow critic of hi wartim strategi . for exampl , just two day befor the prosecutor ’ s announc , one of the senior member of hi own wartim cabinet , benni gantz , issu netanyahu with an ultimatum , warn him that he would quit the govern if he did not spell out a plan for a post - war gaza . then , suddenli , the announc come from karim khan that netanyahu and gallant are under investig . and gantz is one of the first to come out with a condemn of karim khan and a defens of the isra govern . that is the clearest exampl of how even critic of netanyahu have fallen in line , circl the wagon , and present a unit front . thi is realli interest . so thi action by the prosecutor ha kind of had the effect of actual close divis that were start to appear in isra societi , effect bring netanyahu ’ s critic kind of back into hi camp , or at least make it harder to critic him . exactli . and isra , in gener , feel that israel ha alway been target unfairli , held to a higher standard than mani other countri , and that thi is , onc again , anoth exampl of that , anoth exampl of israel be accus of thing that other countri do but get away with . and there have been broadli three critic from the isra of the icc prosecutor . first , the isra claim is that the icc prosecutor is make a horribl fals equival between hama , a terrorist organ , and israel , a democrat state . hama raid israel and launch the bloodiest attack on jew in a singl day sinc the holocaust . israel , in the eye of isra , is fight a righteou respons to protect their citizen and to win back the liberti of the hostag that were captur on octob 7th . [ music play ] thi guy is out to demon israel . he ’ s do a hit job . and netanyahu himself articul some of the clearest version of thi argument when he went on american televis . he ’ s creat fals symmetri , fals fact , and he ’ s do a grave injustic to the intern court . and he call khan ’ s decis absurd , an effort to demon israel and to hold it to far higher standard than ani other countri . he said it would have been as if after 9 / 11 — that ’ s like say after 9 / 11 , well , i ’ m issu arrest warrant for georg bush , but also for bin laden . — arrest warrant had been issu for both osama bin laden and georg bush . or after , in world war ii , well , i ’ m issu arrest warrant for fdr , but also for hitler . it ’ s a hit job . it ’ s not seriou . he ’ s out to defam israel , and he ’ s also pour gasolin — [ music play ] the second critic from isra ha been about process . the icc wa creat about two decad ago by a treati . more than 120 countri have sign that treati , but israel ha not . and israel contend that the prosecutor doesn ’ t have the author , therefor , to go after isra polit leader . isra also say that khan didn ’ t spend enough time assess whether israel wa itself investig these alleg within it own judici system . rememb that the icc is a court of last resort . it ’ s onli suppos to interven when a domest judici system is genuin not make ani effort to investig the alleg crime . and isra are say that khan didn ’ t spend enough time investig gallant and netanyahu . the icc prosecutor have spent 10 year investig alleg crime commit dure a previou war between israel and hama , but thi decis ha been issu within just a few month . and isra are say that khan jump the gun in that sens . so the isra are say , look , we ’ re tri to get to it , but you just didn ’ t give us enough time . exactli . and they ’ ve even said that khan ’ s team wa suppos to be come thi veri week to continu that convers and assess whether israel wa genuin look into these alleg by itself . and that they misl israel by pretend that they would be make that assess when , in fact , all along they were plan to request arrest warrant . interest . so for isra offici , they ’ re see it as a kind of activist thing , as oppos to a neutral judici decis . that ’ s their claim , at least . the prosecutor ’ s offic say that they have tri to sincer engag with israel on thi issu , but that it ’ s becom clear to them that israel doe not serious investig thi kind of crime . so you said , there are three element to thi . what ’ s the last ? the third and last element is on the content of the claim itself . israel flatli deni that it is respons for the humanitarian crisi in gaza . it even deni that there is a famin or that the situat is on the point of a famin . it point out all the way in which it ha work to get much more aid into gaza sinc octob , includ open more cross , allow the us to creat a pier on the shorelin of gaza . it ’ s allow some countri to airdrop aid . and certainli , the amount of aid that ha gone in recent month ha dwarf the amount that wa go in octob and novemb . and while it accept that it soldier have obstruct and , at time , even kill aid worker , it say that that obscur the fact that it coordin everi day in detail with aid group to facilit thousand of aid mission everi month . isn ’ t israel ’ s argument that these shipment could also includ thing that could be veri use for hama , the group that just kill 1 , 200 of it citizen ? exactli . no one ’ s disput , least of all israel , that isra offici are examin all the aid go into gaza . the disput is about whether that ’ s necessari . israel say it is . it say that if it didn ’ t check , then some of these aid convoy might be smuggl in weapon or materi that could be use to fight israel , to kill isra civilian . and that , therefor , israel ha no choic but to examin some of these good go in . again , the counterargu is that israel ’ s check are far more stringent than they need to be and end up prevent the entri of everyday item that pose no militari threat . ok , so that ’ s the isra perspect . how doe the unit state see the prosecutor ’ s request here ? i mean , the us , obvious , israel ’ s biggest alli . well , the american presid , presid biden , condemn it in no uncertain term . he said the prosecutor ’ s decis wa outrag . and he condemn him for draw an implicit equival between hama and the leader of the state of israel . and whi did biden come out so strongli against the prosecutor ? we know that humanitarian aid ha been a major concern for thi administr . so whi would biden be so oppos to someth that realli is call out israel for thi aid ? first of all , becaus israel is a major alli of the unit state , and the unit state want to show support for it alli . second of all , they fear that thi kind of critic , thi kind of intervent , will actual make israel less , rather than more , like to bring the war to a halt , becaus the feel is that it will make israel more defens and in turn batten down the hatch . the third reason is that the unit state , histor , ha never been a particular fan of the intern crimin court . we mention earlier that israel did not sign the treati that creat the icc . well , the unit state did not do that either . and that ’ s in part becaus american leader fear that have an intern global court undermin american sovereignti . they think it ’ s the role of the american judici system to investig american citizen . and there is a fear that with the unit state so activ militarili in mani part of the world , that membership of the court , involv in the court could pave the way for american soldier be tri for act on behalf of the unit state . and that could somehow dent american foreign polici goal across the world . ok , so the unit state doesn ’ t realli like thi court , you know , ha troop in a lot of place , doesn ’ t want a court swoop in and prosecut them when someth goe wrong . but i guess the question then , in my mind , patrick , is doe what thi prosecutor is do matter ? i mean , america is not a signatori . israel is not a signatori . so whi is thi import ? well , for the time be , it mean is more symbol than anyth els . first , karim khan ha not issu an arrest warrant . he ha request an arrest warrant for these five peopl . and three judg will now spend week and possibl month decid whether to uphold those request . that process can be less than a month . in the case of vladimir putin , it wa just shi of a month . presid bashir of sudan wa issu with a warrant . that process took roughli a year . when and if they do do that , howev , there will be practic effect . if an arrest warrant is issu , it mean that ani countri that ’ s a member of the intern crimin court , in theori , should arrest ani of these individu if they enter their territori . that includ more than 120 countri all over the world , much of europ , latin america , africa , and so on . ye , it ’ s true that the unit state and israel are not signatori , and neither are turkey or qatar , two of the countri where hama offici spend much of their time when they ’ re outsid gaza . so there will still be place for offici on either side of these accus to travel to . but there are lot of other countri , like franc , itali , both place where benjamin netanyahu travel in the past year , where , in theori , they will not be abl to set foot . so the negoti over the war can still continu , but if netanyahu travel to franc or to itali , he could be arrest , which is pretti wild . ye , at least that ’ s the theori . the nation author in ani given countri still have to make a choic about whether they want to follow through with it . but would those countri perhap not arrest him out of defer to the unit state ? i think the expect is that if we got into thi scenario , then someon like netanyahu simpli just wouldn ’ t travel to such a countri . but the truth is , we just don ’ t realli know . we are enter unchart water . so thi is realli isol netanyahu in the world . should it go forward ? ye , isol netanyahu and to some extent israel itself . and it ha not just practic implic for the physic movement of netanyahu and hi defens minist , gallant , but it also compound israel ’ s relationship with foreign alli . it complic israel ’ s abil to arm itself . more countri may grow more unwil to sell israel arm , or at least they ’ ll face grow pressur becaus of thi decis not to do so . and it also could forc the countri to becom ever more reliant on the unit state as it becom more of a pariah over it action in gaza . which , of cours , put the unit state in an even trickier posit with an alli who ’ s been pretti hard to be friend with of late . right . and in truth , while the practic consequ of thi move are still unknown , they do , in gener , compound the sens that israel is face more and more diplomat consequ for it action . more than a decad ago , a former isra prime minist warn that israel would face what he call a diplomat tsunami if it conflict with the palestinian went unresolv . [ music play ] and it ’ s possibl that year later we ’ re start to final see what he meant . israel doe still have it support , mani of them , but we ’ re also now see dure thi war a level of critic that goe abov and beyond the kind that we ’ ve grown use to see direct at israel over the year . [ music play ] in addit to the warrant request we ’ ve seen thi week , we ’ ve obvious had an extraordinari wave of protest on american campus and elsewher in the world . and earlier thi year , we had a watersh moment when the intern court of justic began hear accus of genocid against israel . and thi week , sever european countri recogn palestin as a state . wow . so if the tsunami hasn ’ t yet arriv , we can at least say that the wave are get stronger . [ music play ] patrick , thank you . thank you . [ music play ] on wednesday , the leader of spain , norway , and ireland announc that they would recogn an independ palestinian state . the move wa larg symbol , but rais the concern that if neighbor countri follow their lead , europ could becom a counterweight to the american posit that statehood for palestinian should come onli from a negoti settlement with israel . [ music play ] we ’ ll be right back . [ music play ] here ’ s what els you should know today . nikki haley , the former unit nation ambassador who drop her republican presidenti bid in march , said on wednesday that she would vote for donald trump but stop short of offici endors him . haley wa trump ’ s longest stand rival in the 2024 primari contest and had carv out an import lane for herself as the voic for voter look for an altern to the former presid . her decis on whether to endors him could play a pivot role in the race . haley ha built a formid network of high - dollar donor and a solid base of colleg - educ voter that trump need to win . and the citi of uvald , texa , ha reach a settlement with most of the famili of children who were shot by a gunman at robb elementari school in 2022 . to avert a lawsuit , the citi promis to overhaul the citi ’ s polic forc , creat a perman memori to the victim , and pay $ 2 million . [ music play ] today ’ s episod wa produc by will reid and diana nguyen with help from shannon lin . it wa edit by liz o . baylen with help from michael benoist , contain origin music by elisheba ittoop , marion lozano , and pat mccusker , and wa engin by alyssa moxley . our theme music is by jim brunberg and ben landsverk of wonderli . [ music play ] that ’ s it for “ the daili . ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis . see you tomorrow . [ music play ] transcript thi transcript wa creat use speech recognit softwar . while it ha been review by human transcrib , it may contain error . pleas review the episod audio befor quot from thi transcript and email transcript @ nytim . com with ani question . from “ the new york time , ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis , and thi is “ the daili . ” [ music play ] earlier thi week , the top prosecutor of the intern crimin court request arrest warrant for israel ’ s prime minist and it defens minist . the move shock isra and set up a possibl showdown between the world ’ s top crimin court and israel , togeth with it biggest alli , the unit state . today , my colleagu , jerusalem bureau chief patrick kingsley , explain . [ music play ] it ’ s thursday , may 23rd . [ music play ] so , patrick , earlier thi week , there wa a pretti surpris announc by the intern crimin court in the hagu . it had to do with israel and hama . tell us what happen . well , on monday morn , we were all taken by surpris by an announc from the chief prosecutor at the icc , the intern crimin court , the top crimin court in the world . it tri individu accus of war crime . and the chief prosecutor announc that he wa request arrest warrant for five individu involv in the war between israel and hama for crime against human . three of them were from hama — yahya sinwar , the head of hama within gaza , the hama militari command , and the polit leader of hama , who ’ s base in qatar . but mayb the biggest news in thi announc wa that the chief prosecutor wa seek the arrest of two of israel ’ s top leader — benjamin netanyahu , the prime minist , and yoav gallant , the defens minist . and thi wa a massiv bombshel . these two men are leader from a major us alli . they ’ re in regular contact with the us govern , and they were be implicitli equat with the three top leader of an organ , hama , that mani consid a terrorist organ . and thi equat sent shockwav through isra societi and , inde , around the world . so thi is absolut remark , patrick . i mean , i , for one , wa quit surpris by see thi . i want to dig into it with you . so who is thi prosecutor behind these request for these warrant ? and how did he reach thi decis to go for them in the first place ? so the prosecutor ’ s name is karim khan , and he is a british lawyer , a british barrist . he is 54 . he ’ s led a veri impress career . he ha spent year work on human right case , both defend peopl and also prosecut in such case . he wa involv in tribun relat to the war surround the breakup of the former yugoslavia , rwanda . he investig islam state crime in iraq . and in 2021 , he is appoint the top prosecutor at the icc . and what are hi respons as top prosecutor ? well , it ’ s hi job to travel the world and investig alleg of human right abus , war crime , crime against human , and in the process , play a key role in decid who get prosecut at the intern crimin court . the icc and the icc prosecutor investig and tri peopl who would not be pursu by the judici system within their countri of origin . it step in when it seem like the domest author in ani given countri are not do their job . and last year , he famous went after presid putin in russia in connect with the war in ukrain . so at what point did thi prosecutor , karim khan , turn hi attent to israel and gaza ? well , he actual inherit an investig from hi predecessor that ’ s look at israel ’ s conduct and also that of hama dure a previou war in 2014 between the two side . but then that get supersed on octob 7th by the horror that we saw that day commit by hama and then by the scale and damag caus by israel ’ s bomb campaign in it counterattack . and we begin to see not onli revuls and horror at what hama had done in earli octob , but also grow critic and condemn of what israel and it air forc did in it respons . you ’ ll rememb that earlier thi year , the intern court of justic , a separ court also in the hagu , began to address claim that israel wa and is commit a genocid in gaza , a claim that israel strongli deni . right . that wa the case that south africa brought . we did an episod about that . ye , exactli . so as the world ’ s attent focus on thi new conflict , so doe karim khan ’ s . also today , the intern crimin court ’ s chief prosecutor , karim khan , qc , ha wrap up a visit to israel and the occupi west bank . khan ha visit the region to investig if war crime were commit on octob 7th . we start to see him arriv in israel visit some of the site that hama attack last year , talk to survivor , talk to leader , review secur camera footag , and so on . i have just come from the border of the rafah cross , and we could see gaza , at least we could see crane that were on the territori of gaza . and he also visit the rafah cross between egypt and gaza , talk to palestinian . at the ministri of justic in ramallah , the chief prosecutor of the world ’ s highest court . he goe to the isra occupi west bank , to ramallah , where the palestinian author is base , build up evid that led to thi announc on monday . [ music play ] today , i ’ m file applic for warrant of arrest befor pre - trial chamber i of the intern crimin court . and he make thi veri dramat announc in a vid