israel - hamaswar advertis the man ’ s death wa confirm by the hama - control gaza media offic , which identifi him as an employe of the hama - affili news agenc palestin now . bymatthew mpoke bigg follow the isra rescu of four hostag in gaza on saturday , israel ’ s militari said that three of them had been held in the home of a member of hama , which it said show that the arm group wa use civilian home to shield it activ . isra special forc , back by the militari , intellig and air forc , raid two build in a neighborhood in nuseirat , a refuge camp in central gaza on saturday , rescu almog meir jan , 22 ; andrey kozlov , 27 ; and shlomi ziv , 41 , from the home of abdallah aljam , the militari said . a fourth hostag , noa argamani , 26 , wa also freed , appar from a nearbi build . more than 274 peopl were kill dure the raid , accord to gaza ’ s health ministri . the isra militari said that the death toll wa less than 100 . neither the isra militari nor palestinian health offici provid a breakdown of civilian and combat kill in the raid . mr . aljam ’ s death wa confirm by gaza ’ s govern media offic on sunday , which said he had work for the hama - affili news agenc , palestin now . on sunday , the isra militari said in a statement on the telegram messag app : “ the hostag were held captiv by abdallah aljam and member of hi famili in their home . thi isfurth evidenceof the deliber use of civilian home and build by the hama terrorist organ to hold isra hostag captiv in the gaza strip . ” israel ’ s militari ha said for month that civilian casualti in gaza are inevit becaus hama hide it forc within the popul . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis