israel - hamaswar advertis the polit divid over the isra prime minist wa evid even in the announc of when he would appear , with republican and democrat leader issu separ statement . byanni karni report from washington prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel will address a joint meet of congress on juli 24 , the top two congression republican announc on thursday night . speaker mike johnson of louisiana and senat mitch mcconnel , republican of kentucki and the minor leader , said in a statement that the speech would offer mr . netanyahu the opportun to “ share the isra govern ’ s vision for defend their democraci , combat terror , and establish just and last peac in the region . ” but in a separ statement that hint at the deep polit divid over mr . netanyahu and israel ’ s war in gaza , senat chuck schumer , democrat of new york and the major leader , said he harbor “ clear and profound disagr with the prime minist , which i have voic both privat and publicli and will continu to do so . ” he said he nevertheless had join the request for mr . netanyahu to address congress becaus “ america ’ s relationship with israel is ironclad and transcend one person or prime minist . ” earlier thi year , mr . schumer call for mr . netanyahu to step down and for israel to hold new elect . the bipartisan invit to mr . netanyahu , issu last month by the top four congression leader with no date attach , mask a fraught behind - the - scene debat over receiv him . the need for separ statement from the leader of the two parti explain their differ rational for extend the invit underscor those tension . some progress like senat berni sander of vermont have alreadi promis to boycott the speech , call mr . netanyahu a “ war crimin ” for hi tactic in the war against hama , which ha kill ten of thousand of peopl in gaza and caus a humanitarian disast . republican , in contrast , are eager to hug mr . netanyahu close and unequivoc back hi polici . mr . johnson ha been the drive forc behind the invit . “ i am veri move to have the privileg of repres israel befor both hous of congress and to present the truth about our just war against those who seek to destroy us to the repres of the american peopl and the entir world , ” mr . netanyahu said in a statement accept the invit . anni karnii a congression correspond for the time . she write featur and profil , with a recent focu on hous republican leadership . more about anni karni advertis