israel - hamaswar advertis the financ minist ’ s offic signal that the decis , which could worsen the palestinian ’ dire econom crisi , wa a respons to spain , norway and ireland recogn palestinian statehood . byaaron boxerman report from jerusalem israel will not transfer much - need fund to the palestinian author in the wake of the decis by three european countri to recogn a palestinian state , the countri ’ s financ minist said on wednesday , as it foreign minist denounc the european move as give “ a gold medal to hama terrorist . ” the decis by the financ minist , bezalel smotrich , a far - right leader who oppos palestinian sovereignti , threaten to push the palestinian govern into a deeper fiscal crisi . he said in a statement that he had inform prime minist benjamin netanyahu that he would no longer send tax revenu to the author , which administ part of the isra - occupi west bank in close cooper with israel . mr . smotrich ’ s offic signal that the decis wa at least partli a respons to spain , norway and ireland recogn palestinian statehood , and that the palestinian leadership bore respons for campaign for the move . “ they are act against israel legal , diplomat and for unilater recognit , ” said eytan fuld , a spokesman for mr . smotrich , refer to the author . “ when they act against the state of israel , there must be a respons . ” the isra move drew a rebuk from the white hous , but no threat of action in respons . “ i think it ’ s wrong on a strateg basi , becaus withhold fund destabil the west bank . it undermin the search for secur and prosper for the palestinian peopl , which is in israel ’ s interest , ” jake sullivan , presid biden ’ s nation secur advis , said at a news confer . “ and i think it ’ s wrong to withhold fund that provid basic good and servic to innoc peopl . ” mohammad mustafa , the recent inauguratedpalestinian author prime minist , warn that the dire fiscal situat wa contribut to a “ veri seriou moment ” in the west bank , which ha face increas unrest sinc the hama - led oct . 7 attack on israel . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis