advertis support by the offici , christin abizaid , recent warn that the hama attack in israel , and the gaza conflict , had energ terrorist threat worldwid . byeric schmitt report from washington the director of the nation counterterror center will step down next month , biden administr offici said on wednesday . the director , christin s . abizaid , ha serv three year as the countri ’ s top counterterror offici . in recent year , a resurg china and russia , as well as the war in ukrain and in gaza , have replac counterterror as the countri ’ s main nation secur prioriti . but speak to asecur conferencein doha , qatar , last month , ms . abizaid warn that the hama attack against israel on oct . 7 , and the ensu gaza conflict , had energ an increasingli divers set of worldwid terrorist threat . the islam state no longer control vast swath of territori in iraq and syria , but it fighter and group align with al qaeda are on the march in africa . the islam state affili in afghanistan , isi khorasan , dramat demonstr it expand reach earlier thi year , conduct deadli attack iniranandrussia . in addit to support hama in gaza , iran back extremist group in lebanon , syria , iraq and yemen . “ we are in an elev global threat environ , ” ms . abizaid said at the confer . ms . abizaid , 45 , had previous serv as a senior counterterror offici at the white hous and as a senior pentagon offici for southwest asia polici befor take over the counterterror center in june 2021 . the counterterror center , creat in the wake of the attack on sept . 11 , 2001 , integr , analyz and share counterterror inform to address threat . “ christi abizaid is an extraordinari leader who is not onli incred effect but principl , courag and kind , ” avril d . hain , the director of nation intellig , said in a statement . ms . abizaid start her govern career as a counterterror intellig analyst at the defens intellig agenc , special in afghanistan and pakistan , as well as the middl east , and includ a tour as the agenc ’ s senior repres in iraq . she is the daughter of john p . abizaid , a retir armi gener who formerli led the pentagon ’ s central command , overse militari oper in the middl east and part of asia . “ christi ha play an indispens role in drive the counterterror enterpris for the u . s . govern even as other high - prioriti nation secur challeng draw resourc and attent , ” said nichola j . rasmussen , a former director of the counterterror center who is now at the homeland secur depart . brett m . holmgren , the assist secretari of state for intellig and research , will serv as the act director of the counterterror center when ms . abizaid depart in mid - juli , administr offici said . eric schmitti a nation secur correspond for the time , focus on u . s . militari affair and counterterror issu oversea , topic he ha report on for more than three decad . more about eric schmitt advertis