israel - hamaswar advertis support by anti - israel demonstr gather outsid the exhibit in new york that honor peopl at a music festiv in israel who were kill in the hama attack . bymarc traci hundr of peopl protest against israel on monday night outsid an exhibit in lower manhattan that commemor the more than 360 peopl who were kill by hama on oct . 7 at a rave in southern israel , prompt strong condemn from public offici . the locat of the demonstr — outsid an exhibit featur portrait of the peopl kill at the tribe of novatr music festiv , along with car that were char in the attack and the person belong that some music fan left behind — wa wide critic from the citi govern to washington . mayor eric adam of new york visit the exhibit on tuesday and call the protest “ despic . ” and andrew bate , a white hous spokesman , said in a statement tuesday , “ the event at yesterday ’ s memori to those murder at the nova music festiv are outrag and heartbreak . ” one of the exhibit ’ s american organ , scooter braun — a power music execut who wa instrument in the rise of justin bieber — said on tuesday that the exhibit , “ octob 7th 06 : 29 am — the moment music stood still , ” had been extend a week , until june 22 . “ for those who chose to protest against innoc music lover who were murder … we will danc again , ” mr . braun , the chief execut of the music conglomer hybe america , said in a statement . the protest gather monday even step away from the new york stock exchang build in lower manhattan , lit flare and repeat shout includ “ long live the intifada ” and “ israel , go to hell , ” accord tovideo post to social media . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis