israel - hamaswar advertis support by the intern court of justic ha no mean to enforc it order in the gazan citi , but the rule ad pressur on the govern of prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel . bygaya gupta , aaron boxermanandyonett joseph the intern court of justic on friday order israel to “ immedi ” halt it militari offens in the citi of rafah in southern gaza , deal anoth blow to the countri as it face increasingintern isolationand a drumbeat of critic over it conduct in the war . the court ha few effect mean of enforc it order , and it stop short of order a ceas - fire in gaza , with some of the court ’ s judg argu that israel could still conduct some militari oper in rafah under the term of their decis . but the order ad more pressur on the govern of prime minist benjamin netanyahu , who ha face domest and extern call to reach a ceas - fire deal with hama that would lead to the releas of hostag held in gaza . “ the court consid that , in conform with oblig under the genocid convent , israel must immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part , ” the court ’ s presid , nawaf salam , said in readingth 13 - 2 rule . the court , base at the hagu , also specifi the need for open land cross , in particular the rafah cross , as part of it request for “ the unhind provis ” of humanitarian assist and servic . israel ha control the rafah cross for more than two week , and veri few aid truck have enter the enclav sinc , accord to unit nation data . the isra govern said in a statement that it militari “ ha not and will not ” take action that would lead to the partial or complet destruct of the palestinian popul of rafah . in effect , it said that the court ’ s decis ha no bear on israel ’ s offens becaus the prohibit act are not occur . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis