israel - hamaswar advertis an eight - mile - long strip of land between the gaza strip and egypt is the latest focu of the isra assault on hama . bymatthew mpoke bigg israel ’ s announc on wednesday that it forc had gain control over a strip of land that run along the gaza strip ' s southern border suggest that it had fulfil one of the goal of the countri ’ s war against hama , but it portend further isol for palestinian in the enclav . here ’ s a look at the import of the border strip to israel , to palestinian and to egypt : it is land around 100 yard wide that run roughli eight mile from israel ’ s border to the mediterranean . the new border , which divid the citi of rafah , wa set up under the egypt - israel peac treati of 1979 . to the northeast is gaza , while egypt lie to the southwest . egyptian border guard have been polic the land under an agreement with israel made in 2005 when isra forc withdrew from gaza . the isra use the code name philadelphi for the strip , while egyptian offici call it salah al din . senior isra offici had set control of the strip , which in israel is call the philadelphi corridor , as a militari object . hama had dug tunnel beneath the strip — some wide enough for truck , accord to militari expert — and use them to smuggl weapon and personnel into gazan territori . “ thi is the way they can get in and out without ask the isra , ” said ahron bregman , a polit scientist and expert in middl east secur issu at king ’ s colleg in london , who is a former isra militari offic . unless the tunnel are block , he said in a previou interview , hama could rebuild it militari capac after the war . dure other region conflict , egypt ha open it border to refuge , but the govern of presid abdel fattah el - sisi fear that if palestinian civilian cross the border to escap the war they could destabil the countri and becom a drag on it economi . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis