advertis support by the polici could eas pressur on the school to issu statement on current event . offici were critic for their handl of the oct . 7 hama attack . byvim patelandanemona hartocolli harvard said on tuesday that it would now avoid take posit on matter that are not “ relev to the core function of the univers , ” accept the recommend of a faculti committe that urg the univers to dramat reduc it messag on issu of the day . if put into practic , harvard would no longer issu offici statement of empathi , which it did for ukrain , after the russian invas , and for the victim of the oct . 7 hama attack in israel , for exampl . “ in issu offici statement of empathi , the univers run the risk of appear to care more about some place and event than other , ” the report said . “ and becaus few , if ani , world event can be entir isol from conflict viewpoint , issu offici empathi statement run the risk of alien some member of the commun by express implicit solidar with other . ” the univers ’ s institut voic work group , made up of eight faculti member , issu the report , with a set of principl and a recommend path forward , which the administr and govern board accept . “ harvard isn ’ t a govern , ” noah feldman , a harvard law professor and a co - chair of the committe that develop the recommend , said inan interview with the harvard gazett , releas tuesday as part of the univers ’ s announc . “ it shouldn ’ t have a foreign polici or a domest polici . ” the report , howev , did not fulli embrac “ institut neutral ” — a principl promot by the univers of chicago , in which univers commit to stay out of polit and social matter . some univers , includ stanford univers and northwestern , announc shortli after the hama attack that they would adopt the polici . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis