israel - hamaswar advertis support by the board of director of the student - run public said that the articl , by a palestinian human right lawyer , had not been subject to suffici review . bysharon otterman the websit of the columbia law review , one of the unit state ’ most prestigi student - edit law journal , wa taken offlin monday by it board of director after it editor publish anarticlethat argu palestinian are live under a “ brutal sophist structur of oppress ” by israel that amount to a crime against human . as of tuesday even , visitor to thewebsiteof the 123 - year - old journal saw onli a blank page with the messag “ websit is under mainten . ” the decis to suspend access to the websit is the latest exampl of how american univers have sought to regul express that is highli critic of israel amid concern that it veer into antisemit . that , in turn , ha spur complaint about censorship and academ freedom when it come to palestinian scholarship . in a statement , theboard of director , which consist of faculti member and alumni , said it had decid to suspend the websit on monday after learn two day earlier that not all of the student on the law review had read the essay befor public . the board said that it had ask the editor to hold the articl until june 7 , to give other time to read it but that they had publish it on monday instead . the board then decid to take the websit down temporarili “ to provid time for the law review to determin how to proceed . ” in a letter tuesday to the editori staff that wa provid to the new york time , the board charg that the articl had been handl with unusu secreci , call that “ unaccept . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis