israel - hamaswar advertis support by the isra militari withdrew it forc from the northern town of jabaliya in gaza on friday , leav behind scene of devast , return resid said . byaaron boxerman , raja abdulrahimandthoma fuller the isra militari said on friday that it forc had advanc into central rafah , push even more deepli into the southern gaza citi despit an intern backlash and pressur from alli to scale back the latest offens and agre to a ceas - fire . isra special forc were engag in “ intellig - base target raid ” in central rafah , the isra militari said in a statement . it ad that troop were perform “ focus and low - intens oper ” in the citi . on wednesday , the militari announc that it had establish “ oper control ” over the border zone with egypt , an eight - mile - long strip known as the philadelphi corridor on the outskirt of rafah . commerci avail satellit imageri taken by planet lab on thursday show that the isra militari had set up posit in part of central rafah , while militari vehicl and tank could be seen as far as the outskirt of the tel al - sultan area in western rafah . as the fight rage in gaza , presid biden said friday in washington that it wa time to end the war and bring about a ceas - fire . “ at thi point , hama is no longer capabl of carri out anoth oct . 7 , ” mr . biden said from the white hous . “ it ’ s time for thi war to end , for the day after to begin . ” in a statement releas after mr . biden ’ s comment , the isra prime minist , benjamin netanyahu , said “ the war will not end until all of it goal are achiev , includ the return of all our abducte and the elimin of hama ’ s militari and government capabl . ” despit nearli eight month of fight , israel ha yet to accomplish it state goal of toppl hama and bring home the roughli 125 remain hostag abduct dure the oct . 7 attack . isra offici have said that shut down hama ’ s cross - border smuggl network and root out milit in rafah will be key step toward those goal . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis