israel - hamaswar advertis around 215 rocket were launch from lebanon into northern israel in an appar respons to the strike , isra armi radio said . there were no immedi report of casualti . byeuan ward report from beirut , lebanon the lebanes milit group hezbollah fire one of it heaviest rocket barrag yet into israel on wednesday , target militari base and an arm factori , in respons to an overnight strike thatkil one of it senior commandersa tension rise further at the border . the command , taleb abdallah , also known as abu taleb , wa among the highest - rank member of hezbollah , apow lebanes militia and polit movementback by iran , to have been kill sinc the oct . 7 hama - led attack on israel set off war in gaza . there were no immedi report of casualti from the hezbollah rocket barrag , accord to the isra militari . israel and hama have been trade fire sinc israel ’ s offens in the gaza strip prompt hezbollah to mount cross - border attack in support of hama , but the intens of hezbollah ’ s attack ha increas thi month . isra offici have threaten at the highest level to pursu further militari action and hezbollah ha vow to keep up it fight , rais fresh concern that the month of low - level conflict could grow into a larger war on israel ’ s northern border . speak at mr . abdallah ’ s funer in beirut ’ s southern suburb , hashem safieddin , the leader of hezbollah ’ s execut council , pledg that the group would doubl down on it attack against israel in the wake of the kill . “ if the enemi ’ s messag is to retreat from our posit in support the oppress in gaza , then he must know that our answer is final , ” mr . safieddin said . “ we will increas the intens , quantiti and qualiti of our oper . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis