advertis support by mondair jone , a fellow black progress who enter congress with mr . bowman after the 2020 elect , is endors mr . bowman ’ s challeng , georg latim . bynichola fando roughli four year ago , mondair jone and jamaal bowmanmad historytogeth . young , left - lean democrat , they won hard - fought primari in neighbor district to becom the first black men ever to repres new york ’ s westchest counti in congress . now , they find themselv deepli at odd over theisrael - hama war , a break so sharp that mr . jone vow on monday to help defeat mr . bowman in the democrat primari on june 25 and endors hi oppon , georg latim . it wa the latest sign of how intens the conflict in the middl east ha come to divid democrat polit thi elect year . mr . latim and mr . bowman have alreadi spent month debat the conflict , and the race ha been transform by $ 10 million in outsid spend by pro - israel interest group on mr . latim ’ s behalf . mr . jone said in an interview that he could not sit by while mr . bowman posit himself as a lead critic of israel , say that hi former alli had sown “ pain and anxieti ” among jewish new yorker and had torn “ at the fabric of our commun and our civil right coalit . ” but mr . jone also may be consid hi own polit self - interest . afterlos hi hous seatin 2022 , he isnow runningto unseat repres mike lawler , a republican , in a swing district just to the north . creat some distanc from mr . bowman may help win over jewish voter , as well as other moder voter . “ as someon who is among the most popular democrat in the hudson valley , it is my prerog to play a disposit role in end thi long , pain nightmar that we have been experienc sinc oct . 7 , ” mr . jone said . he plan to formal make the endors at an event on tuesday . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis