israel - hamaswar advertis norway host the clandestin meet in 1993 that led to the oslo accord , the framework for peac that came close to resolv the conflict . byemma bubola score of countri have recogn a palestinian state , but norway ’ s announc on wednesday that it would do so carri ad signific becaus it host the clandestin meet in 1993 that led to the oslo accord , the framework for peac that came close to resolv the conflict between israel and the palestinian . itultim fail . norway call itself a friend of israel , and the two countri have a longstand relationship . but sinc oct . 7 , when israel launch a militari offens in gaza in respons to hama - led attack , norway ha also sharpli condemn israel ’ s conduct of the war . norway ’ s foreign minist said in march that “ israel ’ s use of militari forc is have a disproportion sever impact on the civilian popul and is not in line with intern humanitarian law , ” and call for a ceas - fire . norway also continu to fund unrwa , the main u . n . agenc that help palestinian refuge , after sever other countri stop do so follow israel ’ s alleg that about a dozen of the agenc ’ s employe had been involv in the oct . 7 attack . in februari , norway testifi at theintern court of justic , state that isra settlement in the occupi west bank and east jerusalem were among the biggest obstacl to peac in the region . the oslo accord were landmark agreement that includ mutual recognit between the govern of israel and the palestinian leadership , which wa abl to return to the occupi territori from exil . the accord also establish the palestinian author , which wa meant to be an interim bodi exercis limit palestinian self - rule in the west bank and gaza strip . in 2000 , continu negoti toward a perman peac treati to establish an independ palestinian state alongsid an isra one dissolv into a second palestinian upris and an isra militari clampdown . jona gahr store , the prime minist of norway , said on wednesday that “ a recognit of palestin is support to moder forc that are on the defens , in a long and gruesom conflict . ” he call the recognit “ an invest in the onli solut that can give last peac in the middl east , ” and he urg other countri to follow suit “ so that the process toward a two - state solut final can begin again . ” emma bubolai a time report base in london , cover news across europ and around the world . more about emma bubola advertis