israel - hamaswar advertis the slogan , which ha been a touchston for pro - palestinian demonstr for month , ricochet across social media thi week . byali watkin the slogan “ all eye on rafah ” ha ricochet across social media thi week follow an isra strike in the gazan citi that kill dozen of civilian and provok intern outrag . for month , the phrase ha been a touchston in the social and cultur dialogu around israel ’ s war against hama in the region . it ha period trend on social media , particularli as isra militari attack in the citi — locat in the southern gaza strip , along the egyptian border — have escal . on wednesday , the say wa onc again trend , thi time through what appear to bean a . i .- gener imag show a field of refuge tentsspel out “ all eye on rafah . ” one version of the graphic ha been share more than 38 million time on instagram . the phrase may have origin in comment made in februari by rik peeperkorn , who head the world health organ ’ s offic for gaza and the isra - occupi west bank . mr . peeperkorn wa speak at a news confer as the isra militari intensifi it campaign in the southern gaza strip . “ all eye are on rafah , ” mr . peeperkornsaid at the time . the comment wa almost immedi repurpos by pro - palestinian and humanitarian group to draw attent to gaza and rafah , which wa one of the last remain destin for displac palestinian from other part of the territori . among them were save the children intern , oxfam and , later , pro - palestinian lobbi group like jewish voic for peac . the say wa also heard at pro - palestinianproteststhat swept across western univers earlier thi month . the deadlystrikein rafah on sunday wa quicklydenouncedbi world leader . prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel said the attack had kill two hama offici , and he call the civilian death a “ tragic accid . ” ali watkinsi a report on the metro desk , cover crime and law enforc in new york . previous , she cover nation secur in washington for the time , buzzfe and mcclatchi newspap . more about ali watkin advertis