israel - hamaswar advertis it wa unclear if negoti from egypt and qatar would particip . byjulian e . barnesandedward wong report from washington william j . burn , the c . i . a . director , who ha been the lead american negoti in effort for a ceas - fire in gaza , plan to travel to europ thi weekend for talk with hi isra counterpart to tri to reviv the stall discuss over a paus in the fight and the releas of hostag , accord to a u . s . offici and anoth person brief on the negoti . thi month , frustrat boil over between offici from hama and israel , and the countri mediat — the unit state , qatar and egypt — put the talk on hold . isra offici were upset with what they saw as shift negoti stanc by hama , includ the number of hostag to be releas in a first phase . hama wa upset by israel ’ s oper in rafah , the southern gazan citi , whichhav been progressingsinc . but core to the disput were disagr over how to defin a cessat of hostil between hama and israel , and how differ stage of the ceas - fire would be put into effect . the resumpt of talk , at an undisclos locat in europ , is expect to take place over the next few day . it is not clear if egyptian and qatari negoti will join mr . burn and david barnea , the chief of the mossad , israel ’ s spi agenc , to directli take part in the discuss . mr . burn , howev , ha been in close contact with egyptian and qatari negoti as the mediat look to get the talk back on track , said a u . s . offici . in earli may , mr . burn did shuttl diplomacybetween egypt and israel tri to push for the first phase of an agreement to begin , includ a stagger process for the releas of hostag and a temporari halt in fight . the talk in the come day are expect to be the first sinc that round of negoti end . while it is unclear what could be achiev with mr . burn ’ s new discuss , restart the talk is , at thi point , a notabl develop . u . s . offici say a hostag - for - ceas - fire agreement ha to be reach for all their other diplomat effort to get momentum , includ discuss of a postwar administr in gaza and a megad for a palestinian state that the american and saudi want israel to agre to . but isra militari oper in rafah continu to complic the pictur . the more aggress the isra oper there , the less hama want to negoti . some american offici have said israel is take their advic on how to mitig some civilian casualti — which ha contribut to an eros of intern support for israel with over 35 , 000 peopl dead , accord to the gazan health author . on wednesday , jake sullivan , the u . s . nation secur advis , said he wa optimist that israel , so far , wa not conduct the kind of major oper in rafah that the unit state had fear it would . but question remain about exactli what the isra intent for rafah over the longer term might be . julian e . barnescov the u . s . intellig agenc and intern secur matter for the time . he ha written about secur issu for more than two decad . more about julian e . barn edward wongi a diplomat correspond who ha report for the time for more than 24 year from new york , baghdad , beij and washington . he wa on a team of pulitz prize finalist for iraq war coverag . more about edward wong advertis