g7 summit advertis support by the group of 7 gather major industri countri , but it leader are polit weak and ukrain and gaza remain unsolv . bymark landlerandsteven erlang report from bari , itali when prime minist giorgia meloni of itali conven the leader of the group of 7 countri on thursday at a luxuri resort hotel overlook the adriat sea , she might be forgiven for think her guest are seek a refug . except form . meloni herself , everi one of the leader is arriv at the meet beleagu , embattl or endang — an ill - star converg that speak to the polit tremor rattl across the west . it also doesn ’ t bode well for the result of a gather that alreadi face vex challeng , rang from russia ’ s war in ukrain to china ’ s global econom competit . britain ’ s prime minist , rishi sunak , is three week away from an elect in which hi conserv parti is expect to beswept out of power . presid emmanuel macron of franc hascal a snap parliamentari electionaft hi parti suffer heavi loss to the far right in european elect . chancellor olaf scholz of germani and hi social democrat parti werehumbl in those elect as well , while presid biden isin a dogfightwith hi predecessor , former presid donald j . trump . even prime minist fumio kishida of japan face rise unrest within hi liber democrat parti and may lose hi job thi autumn . prime minist justin trudeau of canada , whofac hi own disench publicaft more than eight year in offic , spoke for hi fellow leader when he lament the surg of popul in europ and the unit state . “ we have seen around the world a rise of populist right - wing forc in just about everi democraci , ” mr . trudeau said on monday . “ it is of concern to see polit parti choos to instrument anger , fear , divis , anxieti . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis