israel - hamaswar advertis presid biden outlin a road map put forward by israel that would begin with an immedi , temporari ceas - fire and work toward a perman end to the war and the reconstruct of gaza . byjesu jiménezandaaron boxerman presid biden on fridayoutlin a road mapput forward by israel that would begin with an immedi , temporari ceas - fire and work toward a perman end to the war and the reconstruct of gaza . here are some of the detail , as describ by mr . biden , a senior u . s . administr offici who brief report after the presid spoke and isra offici who have discuss the possibl deal . both side would observ a six - week ceas - fire . israel would withdraw from major popul center in gaza , and a number of hostag would be releas , includ women , the elderli and the wound . the hostag would be exchang for the releas of hundr of palestinian detaine . aid would begin flow into gaza , work up to some 600 truck a day . hundr of thousand of displac palestinian civilian would also be allow to return to their home in northern gaza . most palestinian fled the north follow israel ’ s mass evacu order befor the ground invas began . dure the first phase , israel and hama would continu to negoti to reach a perman ceas - fire . if the talk take more than six week , the first phase of the truce will continu until they reach a deal , mr . biden said . with a perman ceas - fire , israel would withdraw complet from gaza . all the remain live isra hostag would be releas , includ male soldier , and more palestinian prison would be releas in exchang . it wa also unclear who would govern the territori under the agreement . hama could use a ceas - fire to reconstitut it rule in gaza . in the past , the unit state ha said that the palestinian author , which ha struggl to run the west bank , ought to be brought in to run gaza . isra offici , includ mr . netanyahu , have gener reject either the palestinian author or hama run gaza . hama would return the remain of hostag who had die . rubbl would be clear and a three - to five - year reconstruct period would begin , back by the unit state , europ and intern institut . jesu jiménez cover break news , onlin trend and other subject . he is base in new york citi . more about jesu jiménez aaron boxermani a time report fellow with a focu on intern news . more about aaron boxerman advertis