israel - hamaswar advertis support by a u . n . inquiri found support for israel ’ s alleg of sexual violenc in the hama - led oct . 7 attack , but they remain bitterli at odd over the war in the gaza strip . byadam sella , helen cooperandthoma fuller isra larg welcom a u . n . report that support alleg of sexual violenc dure the hama - led oct . 7 attack , even as a top isra offici accus the unit nation of not do enough to address the find — a sign of the rise tension between them . the u . n . report , releas on monday , found both “ reason ground to believ ” that sexual violenc against multipl peopl had occur in at least three locat in israel , and “ clear and convinc inform ” that hostag taken to gaza on oct . 7 had been subject to sexual violenc , includ rape . on tuesday , presid isaac herzog of israelsaid on xthat the report wa “ of immens import , ” and he laud it for it “ moral clariti and integr . ” but israel katz , israel ’ s foreign minist , accus the u . n . secretari gener , antónio guterr , in a social media post of make a concert effort to “ forget the report and avoid make the necessari decis . ” in protest , mr . katz recal israel ’ s repres to the unit nation , gilad erdan , for consult — a step short of withdraw the ambassador for a longer term . mr . erdan wa on a plane back to israel on tuesday , he said . a u . n . spokesman , stéphane dujarr , said he did not accept — or even understand — the critic , and that the report wa done “ thoroughli and expediti ” and that “ in no way , shape or form did the secretari gener do anyth to ‘ buri ’ the report . ” u . n . offici alert journalist in advanc of the report ’ s releas and held a news confer to discuss it , and the report receiv extens news coverag . mr . guterr ha been an outspoken critic of israel ’ s invas of the gaza strip and ha been push for an immedi and bind ceas - fire . and there is deep distrust of the unit nation among isra , who see the bodi as bias against their countri — a fact that wa note in the report on oct . 7 . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis