israel - hamaswar advertis support by news analysi the iranian attack on isra territori made the middl east ’ s new realiti undeni : clash are get harder and harder to contain . byalissa j . rubinandvivian nereim arab countri , from the unit arab emir and oman to jordan and egypt , have tri for month to tamp down the conflict between israel and hama , especi after it widen to includ arm group back by iran and embed deep within the arab world . some of them , like the houthi , threaten arab govern as well . but the iranian drone and missil attack on israel over the weekend , which put the entir region on alert , made the new realiti unavoid : unlik past isra - palestinian conflict , and even those involv israel and lebanon or syria , thi one keep expand . “ part of whi these war were contain wa that they were not a direct confront between israel and iran , ” said randa slim , a senior fellow at the washington - base middl east institut . “ but now we are enter thi era where a direct confront between israel and iran — that could drag the region into the conflict and that could drag the u . s . in — now that prospect of a region war is go to be on the tabl all the time . ” for the moment , the onli countervail forc is the desir of both the unit state and it longtim foe iran to avoid a widen of the conflict , said joost hiltermann , the intern crisi group ' s program director for the middl east and north africa . “ i am hearten by the fact that the onli one who want a war are israel and hama , ” he said . “ the iranian are still talk to the american , ” he said , refer to messag sent in recent day between the two by intermediari includ switzerland and oman . the iranian messag , said mr . hiltermann , made clear they were look to demonstr their power , not expand the war . “ they said , ‘ there is go to be an attack , but we are go to keep it limit . ’ ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis