israel - hamaswar advertis support by despit posit statement and intern urg , neither of the war parti accept a u . s .- back plan to halt the war in gaza , let displac palestinian go home and free hostag . bymichael crowley , matthew mpoke biggandthoma fuller a day after the unit nation secur councilendors a u . s .- back ceas - fire proposalfor the gaza strip , the focu shift on tuesday to the willing of israel and hama , under grow intern pressur to end the war , to make a deal . each side made posit but vagu statement about the ceas - fire plan and blame the other for prolong a war that ha devast gaza . but neither said it would formal embrac the propos , which wa outlin last month in a speech by presid biden and wa the basi of the 14 - 0 vote in the secur council on monday . secretari of state antoni j . blinken , tour the region for the eighth time sinc the hama - led oct . 7 assault on israel , said on tuesday that the fate of the ceas - fire propos rest with hama ’ s top leader in gaza , yahya sinwar . husam badran , a senior hama offici , counter that prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel wa “ the sole obstacl to reach an agreement that would end the war . ” an isra govern offici said in a statement that the propos deal “ enabl israel to achiev ” it war goal , includ destroy hama ’ s capabl and free all the hostag held in gaza by hama and it alli . but the offici , who could be quot onli on that condit that the name and offic be withheld , stop short of say whether israel would accept the agreement . mr . netanyahu ha repeatedli declin to take a firm stand on the plan . last week , he sow doubt when he call the idea of a negoti perman ceas - fire — which hama ha call essenti — a “ nonstart . ” far - right element of hi govern coalit have threaten to bolt if mr . netanyahu accept a ceas - fire , potenti toppl him from power . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis