advertis support by an orang counti judg halt the labor action by academ worker after the univers system said the walkout wa caus student “ irrepar harm . ” byshawn hubler report from sacramento a strike by univers of california academ worker over the treatment of pro - palestinian demonstr wa temporarili halt by a southern california judg on friday after the univers argu the walkout wa caus student “ irrepar harm . ” the temporari restrain order , issu by judg randal j . sherman of the orang counti superior court , came as ten of thousand of u . c . student were prepar for final at the end of the spring quarter . the judg ’ s order came in respons to the third attempt by the public univers system to forc thousand of union teach assist , tutor , research and other key worker back to work . worker repres by unit auto worker local 4811walk off the job may 20 at u . c . santa cruzand thenextend the roll striketo campusesat davi , lo angel , irvin , san diego and santa barbara . the union repres about 48 , 000 graduat student and other academ worker across the u . c . system , which encompass 10 univers and the lawrenc berkeley nation laboratori . the academ worker have contend , among variou charg , that the univers of california ’ s respons to demonstr over the israel - hama war ha amount to a unilater chang in free speech polici and ha creat an unsaf work environ . the univers system ha said that the strike is not about work condit , but rather an attempt to forc u . c . institut to take a posit on a polit issu . univers leader have twice ask the state public employ relat board , which normal overse public sector labor issu , to declar the union ’ s action unlaw . the board found both time that the univers ’ s claim did not meet the legal threshold requir to block the strike . the univers ask for injunct relief on tuesday and su the union for breach of contract , charg that the worker had violat no - strike claus in their collect bargain agreement . in a separ file , the state labor board note that it wa alreadi examin that issu and question whether the orang counti superior court — whose jurisdict includ irvin , the site of one of the walkout — wa the appropri forum for the univers to seek relief . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis