donald trump ’ s approach to the bloodi mideast conflict reflect the anti - interventionist shift he ha brought about in republican polit — and hi person feel about the isra prime minist . donald j . trump ha pin the blame for the entir crisi in gaza on presid biden ’ s “ weak . ” credit ... haiyun jiang for the new york time support by byjonathan swan , maggi habermanandmichael gold in the nearli five month sinc hama terrorist invad israel on oct . 7 , ignit the most divis foreign polici crisi of the biden presid , donald j . trump ha said notic littl about the subject . he criticizedprim minist benjamin netanyahu of israel , befor quickli retreat to more standard express of support for the countri . and he ha made blusteri claim that the invas never would have happen had he been presid . but hi overal approach ha been laissez - fair . “ so you have a war that ’ s go on , and you ’ re probabl go to have to let thi play out . you ’ re probabl go to have to let it play out , becaus a lot of peopl are die , ” mr . trump said in aninterviewwith univis a month after the attack . hi main advic to mr . netanyahu and the isra , he said then , wa to do a better job with “ public relat , ” becaus the palestinian were “ beat them at the public relat front . ” mr . trump ’ s hand - off approach to the bloodi middl east conflict reflect the profound anti - interventionist shift he ha brought about in the republican parti over the past eight year and ha been color by hi feel about mr . netanyahu , whomh may never forgiveforcongratul presid biden for hi 2020 victori . mr . trump ha offer no substant critic of mr . biden ’ s respons to the hama invas and israel ’ s retali in gaza . instead , he ha pin the blame for the entir crisi on mr . biden ’ s “ weak , ” in the same way he often doe when violenc or tragedi occur . “ you would have never had the problem that you just had , the horribl problem where israel — oct . 7 , where israel wa so horribl attack , ” the former presid told a crowd in rock hill , s . c . , on feb . 23 , befor switch to more practic attack line against mr . biden . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis