israel - hamaswar advertis support by the move , while larg symbol , were welcom by palestinian and denounc by prime minist benjamin netanyahu , who call them “ a prize for terror . ” byaaron boxerman , emma bubolaandmichael levenson aaron boxerman report from jerusalem , emma bubola from rome and michael levenson from new york spain , norway and ireland said on wednesday that they would recogn an independ palestinian state , deliv a diplomat blow to israel that show the countri ’ s grow isol on the world stage more than seven month into it devast militari offens in the gaza strip . in close coordin announc , the leader of the three countri said that palestinian independ can not wait for a negoti peac deal with israel ’ s right - wing govern , which larg oppos a two - state solut , ha been expand settlement in the isra - occupi west bank and is continu to bombard gaza without either toppl hama or bring home all it hostag . prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel ha also frustrat world leader — and two member of hi war cabinet — with hi refus to establish a postwar plan to govern gaza , where the health author say that more than 35 , 000 peopl have been kill . simon harri , the irish prime minist , link hi govern ’ s decis to ireland ’ s quest for independ from britain . “ from our own histori , we know what it mean : recognit is an act of power polit and symbol valu , ” he said at a news brief . the announc by all three countri came just day after the intern crimin court ’ s chief prosecutorrequest arrest warrantsfor mr . netanyahu and israel ’ s defens minist , yoav gallant , on suspicion of war crime . he also sought warrant for three top leader of hama . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis