israel - hamaswar advertis three air forc cargo plane drop 38 , 000 readi - to - eat meal in gaza , but critic call that insuffici . a u . s . offici said it wa the begin of a broader campaign . bymichael crowley report from washington the unit state made it first airdrop of humanitarian aid into gaza on saturday , as the biden administr tri to prevent a greater humanitarian disast in the palestinian territori . three u . s . air forc cargo plane airdrop 38 , 000 readi - to - eat meal , in a joint oper with the jordanian air forc , u . s . central command said in a statement on saturday . the airdrop , which some aid expert critic as insuffici and larg symbol , contribut “ to ongo u . s . govern effort to provid lifesav humanitarian assist to the peopl in gaza , ” the statement said . “ we are conduct plan for potenti follow - on airborn aid deliveri mission . ” one of the u . s . offici brief report on the oper on saturday said that 66 pallet had been drop over gaza . the offici said that drop site had been chosen in rel safe area where peopl are shelter and in need . the u . s . did not coordin it oper with hama or ani other group on the ground , the offici said . the oper wa intend to be the first in a sustain campaign of airdrop , the offici said , ad that the unit state is also explor other avenu of bring more aid into gaza , includ by sea . the offici and other at the brief spoke on the condit of anonym to discuss militari oper and diplomat effort . the drop came a day after presid biden said the unit state would find new way to get aid to palestinian in desper need becaus of israel ’ s five - month militari campaign to destroy hama . it also come two day aftermor than 100 palestinian were killeda isra forc open fire around a convoy of aid truck in northern gaza . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis