for more audio journal and storytel , download new york time audio , a new io app avail for news subscrib . transcript thi transcript wa creat use speech recognit softwar . while it ha been review by human transcrib , it may contain error . pleas review the episod audio befor quot from thi transcript and email transcript @ nytim . com with ani question . from “ the new york time , ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis . and thi is “ the daili . ” late last week , an effort to get food into northern gaza turn deadli , as thousand of desper gazan descend on aid truck and isra troop task with guard those truck open fire . but exactli how peopl die and who wa respons remain contest . today , my colleagu hiba yazbek on what we know about what happen and what it tell us about hunger in gaza . it ’ s tuesday , march 5 . so hiba , we are now in the fifth month of israel ’ s war against hama in gaza . and for week , we ’ ve been hear about negoti over a ceas fire and a hostag exchang . then , late last week , there wa a disast surround an aid convoy that wa brought into gaza . you ’ ve been report on what happen . tell us about it . so last thursday , there wa a deadli disast involv civilian , possibl the deadliest disast sinc the war start nearli five month ago , in which 118 palestinian were kill and more than 760 were wound in gaza citi . but there are conflict report on how they die and what exactli happen . the isra militari ha one account of what happen and the gaza health ministri and wit have anoth account . so my colleagu and i start dig into the detail . we start call peopl , piec togeth a pictur of what had actual happen there . and what did you find when you guy start realli look into thi ? so first , let me just give you the context of what happen . thi happen in northern gaza , the place that ha been at war the longest . that ’ s where isra ground forc began their invas of the gaza strip . mani peopl have left the north . but we do know that some 300 , 000 peopl are still there . the peopl who have remain there are realli live through veri desper condit . veri littl aid ha come in to the north of gaza sinc the war start and especi in recent week . food is bare avail for the peopl who ’ ve remain there . the un ha been warn of a famin that is loom over the territori . hiba , whi is there so littl aid get into northern gaza in particular ? well , first of all , there ’ s less aid get into the gaza strip in gener , not just the north . there ’ s multipl reason as to whi that is . but one of the main reason is that israel itself ha been veri slow to approv permit and often deni permit for aid truck and aid convoy to come in , specif to the north . becaus israel say that they don ’ t want the aid to end up in the hand of hama , that they don ’ t want them to get a hold of the packag . got it . when israel doe approv the permit and the aid truck start their journey , there ’ s multipl hurdl that they have to go through in order to actual deliv it to the peopl . some of these hurdl includ the widespread destruct in gaza . there ’ s vast damag across the gaza strip . road have been destroy , there ’ s rubbl everywher , and it ’ s veri difficult for the truck to actual move through that rubbl and through those road . then these aid convoy have to go through multipl isra checkpoint on the way . there ’ s often signific delay at these checkpoint by isra soldier who are inspect the aid . thi make it hard for the truck to make it from where they enter in the south all the way to the north in the specif safeti window that they ’ re given . sometim they make it halfway through and they turn around becaus they got delay so much that they can ’ t keep go . hm . but there ’ s a particular problem with the north , where fight ha been go on the longest . the civil order is now break down , essenti . we know that frequent isra strike on palestinian policemen meant that there ’ s realli no one to run secur for offici group and for aid convoy , leav them vulner to attack by local gang who are tri to steal the aid and sell it or profit off of it , and also , hungri and desper civilian who are tri to grab the aid and take as much as they can , which mean that they end up steal some of it , loot some of it , while it ’ s still on the way . right . so it ’ s lawless and effect social order breakdown . i mean , thi is kind of the downstream effect of extend war in a particular place . there ’ s a power vacuum . that situat can be veri difficult for an organ like the unit nation to be abl to oper safe . right . the few aid truck that do come in have had to either suspend their aid deliveri into the north or have not been abl to deliv aid there . the last time unrwa , the un agenc in charg of palestinian refuge , tri to bring truck to the north wa nearli a month ago . but they said that one of their convoy came under fire . anoth major aid provid , the world food program , said that they haven ’ t deliv aid there in over three week . they cite all of the reason we talk about for thi suspens . so while aid hasn ’ t been come into the north , peopl have been grow more desper and hungri and the situat there ha been get wors , which ha been rais intern alarm . there ’ s been increas call on israel to let aid go through to the north and to allevi the suffer of the resid there . so israel partner with these local palestinian businessmen in gaza , and they promis to secur the aid convoy that the businessmen would suppli and that would make their way into the north . they success did thi three time last week . so peopl start be veri hope that more would come , and ahead of the fourth deliveri , they start to gather at thi distribut point right outsid of gaza citi in the north . that bring us to thursday ’ s incid . [ music play ] so last thursday around 4 : 45 am , around 38 aid truck reach thi distribut point . they start get closer to the crowd of peopl who had camp there overnight wait for thi aid to come . when the peopl see the truck come , they ’ re veri desper . they surround them . they get on top of them . then at some point , isra soldier start fire shot . then it turn violent veri fast . it end with 118 palestinian dead and 760 injur . thi is where the account diverg . ok . so let ’ s start with the isra account . what do they say happen ? so the isra militari said that it wa tri to secur the convoy and it had tank nearbi to make sure that the convoy reach the area . it did acknowledg that it troop had open fire at the crowd , but they said that they open fire when a violent crowd or a violent mob approach their troop and endang their live . they said the shot that were fire weren ’ t realli the reason whi so mani peopl die , but the reason that so mani peopl die wa becaus , in the chao of all of it , they trampl each other and mani had die from suffoc or trampl , and also that the truck had run over some of the peopl who were tri to run away . oh , god . so the isra don ’ t deni actual shoot , but they say it wa more about control the crowd , kind of as warn shot type thing , and that thi wa not the way peopl actual die . they say the way peopl actual die wa suffoc or be crush by the aid truck themselv . right . what did the gazan health author say ? so the gazan health author have actual been call thi the flour massacr , or the massacr of the hungri stomach . becaus what they ’ re say is that isra forc fire at a crowd of hungri and desper peopl who were wait for aid . wit and palestinian who were there have said that although some peopl were trampl and possibl run over by the truck , that wa not the main reason for the high death toll . most of the peopl who were injur or kill were injur and kill by isra fire . so the gazan health author are essenti say thi wa a massacr by israel . right . do we know , hiba , what actual did happen ? what have you guy found in your report ? well , the isra militari releas drone footag that it claim show a mass stamped in which gazan are trampl . but that video onli ad to the confus of the sequenc of event . the qualiti and the length of the clip made it more difficult to confirm these claim . right . it wa just graini . there wa no sound . you saw peopl scrambl and run , but you didn ’ t understand whi . right . the drone footag wa heavili edit . it left out key moment . but it did show hundr of peopl circl around the truck and hope to catch a bag of flour . then suddenli , we see peopl start to panic and run in multipl direct . then they releas anoth clip in which we see two isra tank that are posit about a quarter mile down the road . then we see about a dozen bodi lie around them . we see peopl crawl and duck for cover . [ crowd nois ] but we did have anoth video that wa releas by al jazeera . [ gunfir ] and it show a crowd near the aid convoy . and it also captur the sound of gunfir and show multipl tracer round , which is a special type of ammunit that help troop fine tune their target when it ’ s dark . the tracer round origin from the direct of a nearbi isra militari base . so although that did not conclud that the shot came from the direct of the isra militari , it did add anoth layer of evid . so hiba , it sound like these video are suggest but not conclus . but what did the peopl you spoke to on the ground say , the eyewit and survivor and doctor you spoke with . right . we spoke to wit and survivor as well as doctor at the hospit that have taken in the peopl who were wound and kill . they said that most of the peopl had die or were wound by gunshot . the doctor who run one of the four main hospit in the area that took in the casualti told me that out of the 13 peopl who were kill and the 170 peopl who were wound that the hospit took in , all of the injuri were of gunshot wound . he said that they didn ’ t see ani injuri that coincid with those of a stamped or peopl be run over by truck . that account echo the one that we ’ ve heard from wit and peopl who were there , who saw peopl get shot and fall to the ground next to them . but in the chao of everyth , peopl were not check who ’ s dead and who ’ s wound . they were just take the flour , and they were run for their live . and although the account differ on both side , what we do know is that mani hungri and desper peopl die while tri to get food and secur aid in a place where famin is loom and starvat is rampant . that ’ s what i spent the last few week report on . i ’ m tri to understand how peopl in the north of gaza specif are surviv with such littl food . we ’ ll be right back . so hiba , i want to talk about what peopl are do to surviv in northern gaza . but befor we get to that , what is the big pictur on the state of hunger in gaza ? hunger ha reach unpreced level in gaza and specif in northern gaza . we ’ re start to alreadi see report of children die from malnutrit and dehydr . thi week , the health ministri said that 15 children have die from malnutrit and dehydr at just one of northern gaza ’ s hospit . wow , 15 children have actual die ? ye . we also have the un and aid organ say that one in six children in northern gaza were acut malnutrit and that more than 90 percent of children under two are face sever food poverti . the un humanitarian coordin said that a quarter of all gazan resid are one step away from famin . how exactli are peopl surviv , hiba ? i mean , you ’ re talk to peopl in northern gaza . what are they say ? i ’ ve been report on hunger for week . i ’ ve talk to peopl about what they ’ re do in order to surviv with such littl food . [ non - english speech ] . [ non - english speech ] . i recent talk to one woman whose experi is veri typic in northern gaza . her name is ghada krayem . she ’ s a 23 - year - old woman from the north who stay in the north and didn ’ t flee . tell me about ghada . [ non - english speech ] . ghada is one of 10 kid . she ha six sister and three brother . she ’ s actual gaza ’ s first femal solar power engin . she ’ s won mani award intern . she ’ s also the sole provid for her famili . she ’ s use the money that she won from these grant and competit to help her famili through thi war . with that money , she actual stockpil a bunch of food in the begin of the war , expect the situat to deterior . she bought flour and milk and can food and everyth they might need . they stockpil it in their home . how is it that they ’ re still in northern gaza ? well , actual , they tri to stay in their home for as long as they possibl could , until the ground fight realli basic reach their doorstep . [ non - english speech ] . at one point , earli on dure israel ’ s ground invas of the north — [ non - english speech ] . — isra soldier came to their build and they forc them out . they ask everyon to leav the build , and they detain all of the men and the boy , who were later releas . she wa forc to leav with noth . they took noth with them , like mani other gazan . and they move . they move 12 time sinc . wow . one of those time wa to the south , where they got there and they realiz that it actual wasn ’ t much safer . it wasn ’ t better for them . so they realiz that they should probabl just go back to the north and stay as close as possibl to their home in case they ’ re abl to go back later . but that never happen becaus isra forc took up their home as a militari base and they were there for two week , she said . [ non - english speech ] . after they ’ d left , two week later , she went back to check on her home . it wa burn . there wa noth left , includ the food that she ’ d stockpil . now she ’ s shelter with 50 member of her extend famili , includ children , in a two bedroom apart in the north . 50 peopl in a two bedroom apart ? that is extraordinari . so what did they do for food earli in the war ? well , she told me that in the begin of the war , they still were abl to find some thing to buy and eat , like rice and veget . but — [ non - english speech ] . she said that by the end of decemb , basic , when aid to the north becam less frequent and thing that they were eat had start to run out , includ flour , which becam much less avail and much more expens . they didn ’ t know what to do . i mean , they had noth to eat , so they start mix water with starch to eat . they were have one meal a day . and the children were constantli hungri , so they had to find an altern . that altern wa anim food . [ non - english speech ] . so she told me that they start grind up , realli , ani anim food that they could find . so rabbit food and bird food and hay and fodder , realli anyth that they could get their hand on . they would use that to make bread with . but the bread wa veri dri , and it smell bad , it tast bad , and it made their stomach hurt . but she said that the one that wa the worst for her wa the bird food . [ non - english speech ] . she said the bird food tast and smell as if you were sit with a bunch of chicken . the smell wa veri bad and the tast wa even wors . [ non - english speech ] . but she told me that even though thi stuff tast and smell bad , they realli tri to make it as less aw as possibl . she told me that one of her cousin shelter with her love to bake , and she made realli tasti sweet befor the war . so basic , she tri to make the most out of these ingredi . she wa make dessert use the corn mill and the rabbit food . she wa also make other savori dish that they like and they ate frequent befor the war . [ non - english speech ] . she use the anim feed to make maftoul , which is the palestinian version of couscou . so she wa make it with the ground up anim feed ? ye . but that wa still not enough . at that point , ghada and her famili were onli eat one meal a day and that wa not enough for them or the children in the famili . [ non - english speech ] . [ non - english speech ] . she told me that her littl sister , two - year - old elen , who is actual the youngest person shelter with them , wa hungri all the time . she wa go to sleep cri and wake up cri . and she love milk , but they ran out of milk more than two month ago . so what they ’ ve been do is basic give her expir juic . it wa actual not even juic , it ’ s a concentr juic that they would mix with water . becaus it wa expir , it wa make her sick . but that wa the onli thing that they could give her in place of milk . when they were abl to , they would give her sugar cane that they would find in the market and lemon as a snack . sometim when those weren ’ t even avail , they would just give her gum to chew on and stop cri , to silenc her hunger . [ non - english speech ] . so i ask her if they had been abl to get ani aid sinc the war start . she told me that her brother muhammad , who ’ s 30 year old , had been go to the distribut site and sleep on the beach just wait for aid . he would leav at 7 : 00 in the morn and come back at 3 : 00 am . he slept there for three day thi week . so her brother had been sleep on the beach in hope that there would be aid drop off here . so what happen ? so after wait for hour near the distribut site on thursday , he saw the eight truck come . and along with the crowd , he ran toward them . suddenli , when the chao erupt , he just start see peopl drop to the ground . he ’ s actual deaf and mute . so he didn ’ t know what wa happen . he just saw peopl get shot and fall to the ground in front of him . she told me that he saw someon get shot in the head right next to him . god . in the middl of all the chao and the bloodsh , he wa actual abl to grab a bag of flour . he just took it and start run realli fast . he wa just tri to get away and hold on to that bag of flour that he wa abl to get . while leav the site , he saw thi littl kid who wa also abl to grab a bag of flour . but she said that he told her that the kid wa stop by local gang member who had attack him and grab the bag of flour from him . they stole it from him . ghada ’ s brother just kept run until he got home , final . he came home after three day of sleep in the sand with a bag of flour . god , a terrifi night . mhm . but that wa the first time they ’ ve had flour in month , sinc decemb , basic . so obvious , they want to make bread . but that bag wa a 25 kilogram bag of flour . again , they were 50 peopl shelter in one apart . so they had to make it last them as long as possibl so it could feed all the member of the famili . so actual what they ’ re do now is they ’ re mix the flour with anim feed still . they ’ re do one cup of flour with three cup of anim feed to stretch it out for as long as possibl . they ’ re make bread with it . wow . she said that it wa better , but still not normal bread . it wa not what they were crave . [ non - english speech ] . they ’ ve been through so much sinc the war start . they ’ ve seen peopl kill . they ’ ve seen dead bodi . they ’ ve been displac 12 time . they ’ ve lost friend and famili member . but she said that now with the hunger and the starvat in the north , it ’ s realli the worst thing they ’ ve gone through sinc the begin of the war . she said that she ’ s see peopl , kid who are rummag through trash , tri to find anyth to eat . so she said that peopl were still go back to that same distribut site . she even said that more peopl were go back on the beach and wait and camp out and sleep there , hope for more aid to come . she also said that her brother , muhammad , wa also go back everi day sinc thursday , hope to get anoth bag of flour . becaus he wa so hungri that he want to eat anyth , and risk hi life for a bag of flour wa worth it . despit the fact that so mani peopl had die on thursday tri to get flour , the fact that some peopl did come home with a bag of flour , that wa enough for them and other to go back there in hope that more wa go to come . [ non - english speech ] . [ non - english speech ] . [ non - english speech ] . hiba , thank you . thank you , sabrina . over the weekend , the biden administr airdrop food into gaza for the first time . vice presid kamala harri call for a ceas fire , a posit she press with a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , benni gantz , at the white hous on monday . meanwhil , 15 truck were dispatch to northern gaza on monday . but at least five were loot along the way , and it wa unclear how mani reach their intend destin . we ’ ll be right back . [ music play ] here ’ s what els you should know today . on monday , the suprem court rule that state may not bar former presid donald trump from run for anoth term , reject a challeng to trump ’ s elig that had threaten to upend the presidenti race . the case aros from a challeng brought by colorado voter who cite section iii of the 14th amend , a provis adopt after the civil war to forbid those who had taken an oath to support the constitut from hold offic if they engag in insurrect . the justic agre that individu state may not bar candid from the presid under that constitut provis . it wa a unanim decis that wa larg expect . and a unit nation report releas on monday found , quot , “ reason ground to believ that sexual violenc , includ rape wa commit in at least three locat in israel dure the octob 7 attack , the nova music festiv site , road 232 , and kibbutz re ’ im . ” the expert also said they had found circumstanti evid that could indic sexual violenc had occur with a number of victim , mostli women , who were found fulli or partial nake , bound , and shot . in addit , the un group said it had found clear and convinc inform , base on firsthand account from releas hostag , that sexual violenc , includ rape , wa inflict against some women dure their time in captiv in gaza . the report said that the un team had also heard account of sexual violenc against palestinian that implic isra secur forc and settler . today ’ s episod wa produc by sydney harper , rachel bonja , and lynsea garrison . it wa edit by liz o . baylen and lisa chow . contain origin music by dan powel , marion lozano , and elisheba ittoop and wa engin by alyssa moxley . our theme music is by jim brunberg and ben landsverk of wonderli . that ’ s it for “ the ” daili . i ’ m sabrina tavernis . see you tomorrow . transcript thi transcript wa creat use speech recognit softwar . while it ha been review by human transcrib , it may contain error . pleas review the episod audio befor quot from thi transcript and email transcript @ nytim . com with ani question . from “ the new york time , ” i ’ m sabrina tavernis . and thi is “ the daili . ” late last week , an effort to get food into northern gaza turn deadli , as thousand of desper gazan descend on aid truck and isra troop task with guard those truck open fire . but exactli how peopl die and who wa respons remain contest . today , my colleagu hiba yazbek on what we know about what happen and what it tell us about hunger in gaza . it ’ s tuesday , march 5 . so hiba , we are now in the fifth month of israel ’ s war against hama in gaza . and for week , we ’ ve been hear about negoti over a ceas fire and a hostag exchang . then , late last week , there wa a disast surround an aid convoy that wa brought into gaza . you ’ ve been report on what happen . tell us about it . so last thursday , there wa a deadli disast involv civilian , possibl the deadliest disast sinc the war start nearli five month ago , in which 118 palestinian were kill and more than 760 were wound in gaza citi . but there are conflict report on how they die and what exactli happen . the isra militari ha one account of what happen and the gaza health ministri and wit have anoth account . so my colleagu and i start dig into the detail . we start call peopl , piec togeth a pictur of what had actual happen there . and what did you find when you guy start realli look into thi ? so first , let me just give you the context of what happen . thi happen in northern gaza , the place that ha been at war the longest . that ’ s where isra ground forc began their invas of the gaza strip . mani peopl have left the north . but we do know that some 300 , 000 peopl are still there . the peopl who have remain there are realli live through veri desper condit . veri littl aid ha come in to the north of gaza sinc the war start and especi in recent week . food is bare avail for the peopl who ’ ve remain there . the un ha been warn of a famin that is loom over the territori . hiba , whi is there so littl aid get into northern gaza in particular ? well , first of all , there ’ s less aid get into the gaza strip in gener , not just the north . there ’ s multipl reason as to whi that is . but one of the main reason is that israel itself ha been veri slow to approv permit and often deni permit for aid truck and aid convoy to come in , specif to the north . becaus israel say that they don ’ t want the aid to end up in the hand of hama , that they don ’ t want them to get a hold of the packag . got it . when israel doe approv the permit and the aid truck start their journey , there ’ s multipl hurdl that they have to go through in order to actual deliv it to the peopl . some of these hurdl includ the widespread destruct in gaza . there ’ s vast damag across the gaza strip . road have been destroy , there ’ s rubbl everywher , and it ’ s veri difficult for the truck to actual move through that rubbl and through those road . then these aid convoy have to go through multipl isra checkpoint on the way . there ’ s often signific delay at these checkpoint by isra soldier who are inspect the aid . thi make it hard for the truck to make it from where they enter in the south all the way to the north in the specif safeti window that they ’ re given . sometim they make it halfway through and they turn around becaus they got delay so much that they can ’ t keep go . hm . but there ’ s a particular problem with the north , where fight ha been go on the longest . the civil order is now break down , essenti . we know that frequent isra strike on palestinian policemen meant that there ’ s realli no one to run secur for offici group and for aid convoy , leav them vulner to attack by local gang who are tri to steal the aid and sell it or profit off of it , and also , hungri and desper civilian who are tri to grab the aid and take as much as they can , which mean that they end up steal some of it , loot some of it , while it ’ s still on the way . right . so it ’ s lawless and effect social order breakdown . i mean , thi is kind of the downstream effect of extend war in a particular place . there ’ s a power vacuum . that situat can be veri difficult for an organ like the unit nation to be abl to oper safe . right . the few aid truck that do come in have had to either suspend their aid deliveri into the north or have not been abl to deliv aid there . the last time unrwa , the un agenc in charg of palestinian refuge , tri to bring truck to the north wa nearli a month ago . but they said that one of their convoy came under fire . anoth major aid provid , the world food program , said that they haven ’ t deliv aid there in over three week . they cite all of the reason we talk about for thi suspens . so while aid hasn ’ t been come into the north , peopl have been grow more desper and hungri and the situat there ha been get wors , which ha been rais intern alarm . there ’ s been increas call on israel to let aid go through to the north and to allevi the suffer of the resid there . so israel partner with these local palestinian businessmen in gaza , and they promis to secur the aid convoy that the businessmen would suppli and that would make their way into the north . they success did thi three time last week . so peopl start be veri hope that more would come , and ahead of the fourth deliveri , they start to gather at thi distribut point right outsid of gaza citi in the north . that bring us to thursday ’ s incid . [ music play ] so last thursday around 4 : 45 am , around 38 aid truck reach thi distribut point . they start get closer to the crowd of peopl who had camp there overnight wait for thi aid to come . when the peopl see the truck come , they ’ re veri desper . they surround them . they get on top of them . then at some point , isra soldier start fire shot . then it turn violent veri fast . it end with 118 palestinian dead and 760 injur . thi is where the account diverg . ok . so let ’ s start with the isra account . what do they say happen ? so the isra militari said that it wa tri to secur the convoy and it had tank nearbi to make sure that the convoy reach the area . it did acknowledg that it troop had open fire at the crowd , but they said that they open fire when a violent crowd or a violent mob approach their troop and endang their live . they said the shot that were fire weren ’ t realli the reason whi so mani peopl die , but the reason that so mani peopl die wa becaus , in the chao of all of it , they trampl each other and mani had die from suffoc or trampl , and also that the truck had run over some of the peopl who were tri to run away . oh , god . so the isra don ’ t deni actual shoot , but they say it wa more about control the crowd , kind of as warn shot type thing , and that thi wa not the way peopl actual die . they say the way peopl actual die wa suffoc or be crush by the aid truck themselv . right . what did the gazan health author say ? so the gazan health author have actual been call thi the flour massacr , or the massacr of the hungri stomach . becaus what they ’ re say is that isra forc fire at a crowd of hungri and desper peopl who were wait for aid . wit and palestinian who were there have said that although some peopl were trampl and possibl run over by the truck , that wa not the main reason for the high death toll . most of the peopl who were injur or kill were injur and kill by isra fire . so the gazan health author are essenti say thi wa a massacr by israel . right . do we know , hiba , what actual did happen ? what have you guy found in your report ? well , the isra militari releas drone footag that it claim show a mass stamped in which gazan are trampl . but that video onli ad to the confus of the sequenc of event . the qualiti and the length of the clip made it more difficult to confirm these claim . right . it wa just graini . there wa no sound . you saw peopl scrambl and run , but you didn ’ t understand whi . right . the drone footag wa heavili edit . it left out key moment . but it did show hundr of peopl circl around the truck and hope to catch a bag of flour . then suddenli , we see peopl start to panic and run in multipl direct . then they releas anoth clip in which we see two isra tank that are posit about a quarter mile down the road . then we see about a dozen bodi lie around them . we see peopl crawl and duck for cover . [ crowd nois ] but we did have anoth video that wa releas by al jazeera . [ gunfir ] and it show a crowd near the aid convoy . and it also captur the sound of gunfir and show multipl tracer round , which is a special type of ammunit that help troop fine tune their target when it ’ s d