critic ’ s notebook the charact known as handala , creat by naji al - ali in 1969 , is make an imprint on art and as a protest symbol . columbia student occupi hamilton hall — which they renam hind ’ s hall — in april unfurl a banner with the palestinian cartoon charact handala , a boy with hi back turn . credit ... bing guan for the new york time support by byaruna d ’ souza when pro - palestinian student protest took over hamilton hall at columbia univers last month and renam it “ hind ’ s hall , ” thebannerthey unfurl contain imag of a cartoon charact creat over 50 year ago that symbol the resili of palestinian . on either side of the text were two imag of a barefoot boy with tatter cloth and spiki hair , hi back turn to us . the charact is call handala ( various transliter as hanzala or handzala ) , a name deriv from a nativ plant that is deep - root , persist and bear bitter fruit , and ha becom a potent symbol of the palestinian struggl . the imag wa creat by thepalestinian polit cartoonist naji al - aliin 1969 , one of the most wide read cartoonist in the arab world , who wa murder in london in 1987 . ( the case remain unsolv . ) handala is 10 year old , the same age that ali wa when he becam a refuge in 1948 . after the arab - isra war of 1973 , also known as the yom kippur war , ali exclus depict handala with hi back turn , a gestur that transform him into a silent wit of the horror and outrag go on around him . the stanc , accord to the cartoonist , repres a reject of the polit machin of foreign nation when it came to the fate of ordinari palestinian . margaret olin , a religi studi scholar at the yale divin school and co - author of “ the bitter landscap of palestin , ” ha been photograph handala ’ s appear in mural and as graffiti dure her visit to the gaza strip and the west bank over the past decad . “ it ’ s becom a symbol of the whole palestinian movement to return to their former home , ” she said in a telephon interview . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis