israel - hamaswar advertis isra bombard and raid have put mani of gaza ’ s hospit out of oper and onli a few remain even partial function . byraja abdulrahim isra forc mass at the entranc to a major hospit in the northern gaza strip on friday , trap more than a dozen medic personnel insid and all but put one of the last function hospit out of oper , accord to a doctor and palestinian news media . for day , the isra militari ha bombard the area around kamal adwan hospit in beit lahia , near the northernmost edg of the territori . it advanc with tank toward the northern entranc cut off access to the hospit , accord to dr . eid sabbah , the head of nurs at the hospit . “ now it is consid practic , becaus it is besieg , not oper , ” said dr . sabbah , who had been at the hospit on thursday . mani patient were receiv kidney dialysi on thursday , he said , but they also left befor the militari cut off access . “ the militari ha reach the entranc , ” he said . the blockad of kamal adwan came two day after the isra militari order patient and staff atal awda hospitalnearjabaliya , anoth major medic center in northern gaza , to evacu on wednesday and then raid the complex . about 30 peopl remain there , includ medic staff and patient in critic condit who could not be transfer . isra forc destroy door and damag equip , gazan offici said . the isra militari ha repeatedli besieg and assault gaza ’ s hospit , contend that hama , the arm group that led the oct . 7 attack on israel , use them as shield , with it fighter oper within the hospit and from tunnel beneath them . hama and hospit administr have deni the claim . the isra militari ha taken journalist on tour of one hospit it raid and provid document it say prove it claim about hama and hospit . but there ha been no independ verif of the claim . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis