israel - hamaswar advertis as the isra militari freed four hostag , the surround area came under heavi fire , gener chao and panic , eyewit said . bybil shbair , aaron boxermanandadam rasgon a day after the isra militari rescu four hostag held by hama milit in nuseirat , gazan describ an intens bombard dure the raid , follow by chao in the street from an oper that kill and wound score of palestinian . bayan abu amr , 32 , wa carri her 18 - month - old son mohammad on the edg of nuseirat ’ s main marketplac on saturday when she wa surround by the heavi boom of strike from aircraft , which israel ’ s militari said target milit in an effort to ensur the safe extract of the hostag and special forc . “ peopl were rush like the day of judgment ; i did not know where to run , ” said ms . abu amr , who wa on her way to pay a condol call to her uncl ’ s famili after two of hi son had die . “ kid were scream , women were fall down while run . ” along with other gazan , she manag to clamber onto a pass pickup truck that wa tri to ferri peopl safe out amid the strike , she recal . one girl wa separ from her mother in the confus , while an old man lost hi grip and fell off the truck onto the ground , she said . ms . abu amr final arriv home with her son hour later , shock that she wa still aliv . “ i won ’ t take my son out of the hous again , ” she said . to rescu the hostag , isra troop enter two residenti build in which they were be held , accord to rear adm . daniel hagari , the isra militari spokesman . admir hagari said there were famili live in the apart , as well as arm hama milit guard the hostag , make it “ imposs to reach them without harm the civilian of gaza . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis