israel - hamaswar advertis robert o ’ brien , one of donald trump ’ s closest foreign polici advis , said he wa there as a “ privat citizen . ” byjonathan swan one of former presid donald j . trump ’ s closest foreign polici advis , robert o ’ brien , met with prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel on monday as part of a deleg of former trump offici that visit a number of isra leader . mr . o ’ brien , who serv as nation secur advis to mr . trump and is expect to play a signific role in ani second trump administr , wa join in the meet by two other former trump offici — the former ambassador to the unit arab emir , john rakolta , and the former ambassador to switzerland , ed mcmullen . the member of the deleg were describ by marshal wittmann , a spokesman for the american israel public affair committe , the pro - israel lobbi group whose affili , the american israel educ foundat , fund and organ the trip . in a brief phone interview , mr . o ’ brien said he had want to visit israel ever sinc the hama - led attack on oct . 7 to express hi “ solidar for israel and the jewish peopl . ” mr . o ’ brien said mr . trump wa awar of hi trip to israel , but he said the former presid had not ask him to go or direct him to say anyth to mr . netanyahu . he said he wa there as a “ privat citizen , ” ad that he did express hi view to mr . netanyahu that the hama terrorist attack would never have happen if mr . trump were still presid . ask whether mr . netanyahu also express these view about mr . trump , mr . o ’ brien said : “ he ’ s a pro , and he understand he need good relat with the biden administr . but that wa my sentiment . ” the former trump administr offici and mr . netanyahu met on monday not long after the intern crimin court ’ s chief prosecutor in the hagu , karim khan , sought arrest warrant for mr . netanyahu , hi defens chief and three hama leader on charg of crime against human . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis