advertis support by the head of rutger , northwestern and u . c . l . a . will be the first univers leader to testifi sinc a wave of protest encamp roil colleg campus . bysharon otterman , ernesto londoñoandnichola bogel - burrough for the fourth time in six month , the republican - led hous committe on educ and the workforc is summon school leader to washington to be question about accus of antisemit at their institut . thi time , on thursday , the committe ’ s focu will be on how three divers univers react when pro - palestinian encamp sprung up on their lawn as part of an intern wave of student activ against the war in gaza . two of the school whose leader will testifi — northwestern and rutger — made deal with protest to end their encamp peac . the third , the univers of california , lo angel , call in the polic to dismantl it encamp , but onli after a violent attack by counterprotest the night befor caus the situat toveer out of control . repres virginia foxx , the chairwoman of the committe , ha blast rutger and northwestern for negoti with the demonstr , whose view she ha describ as antisemit and support of terror . but she ha also derid u . c . l . a . ’ s chancellor for call the polic too late , say he allow hi campu to becom a “ sever and pervas hostil environ for jewish student . ” “ the committe ha a clear messag for meali - mouth , spineless colleg leader : congress will not toler your derelict of your duti to your jewish student , ” ms . foxx said in amay 16 statementannounc the hear . “ no stone must go unturn while build are be defac , campu green are be captur or graduat are be ruin . ” the three colleg leader do not disput that jewish student have face antisemit , both on and off their campus . but all have larg defend their respons , say that they have taken step to stop it . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis