israel - hamaswar advertis news analysi despit diplomat blow thi week , isra leader are focus on their public , which still larg view the war with hama in gaza as an existenti conflict . byaaron boxerman report from jerusalem israel took sever tough diplomat blow over the past week , some of which had been fear for year . yet the rise outcri against israel abroad appear not to have sway the isra public , whose view on the countri ’ s militari campaign in gaza are larg differ from those of the rest of the world . just thi week , karim khan , the chief prosecutor for the intern crimin court , announc he wasseek arrest warrantsfor israel ’ s prime minist and defens minist on charg of crime against human , alongsid three leader of hama ; three european countri announc they wouldrecogn a palestinian state ; and israel back down on seiz equip from the associ press after an intern backlash . but isra leader are lookingfirst and foremost to their public , which , analyst say , still view the war with hama in gaza as an existenti conflict . while intern support for israel ha erod over it devast militari respons in gaza — with over 35 , 000 peopl dead , accord to health author there — isra have larg remain focus on the brutal of the hama - led oct . 7 attack and the fate of hostag taken that day . polit analyst say that mr . netanyahu hope to leverag the rise intern critic to tamp down frustrat at home over hi failur to either decis defeat hama or bring home the remain hostag in gaza . some of mr . netanyahu ’ s key rival ralli to hi defens on monday after mr . khan announc that he would seek a warrant for hi arrest . “ israel is not onli isol , but feel that it is under some kind of sieg , ” said alon pinka , a former isra diplomat . for mani isra , memori ofth massacr in southern israel — in which roughli 1 , 200 peopl were kill and 250 taken hostag , accord to the isra author — remain a constant backdrop to the conflict . month later , isra news media still continu air the stori of victim , survivor and the famili of those held hostag in gaza . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis