israel - hamaswar advertis the bodi were found in jabaliya , where the isra militari ha been tri to root out a renew hama insurg . byaaron boxermanandjohnatan reiss isra forc retriev the bodi of three oct . 7 hama attack victim in an overnight oper in northern gaza , the isra militari said on friday , further heighten fear for the fate of the remain hostag held in gaza . isra offici identifi the three hostag as hanan yablonka , 42 ; michel nisenbaum , 59 ; and orion hernandez radoux , a dual citizen of franc and mexico . accord to rear adm . daniel hagari , the isra militari spokesman , all three were kill in the hama - led oct . 7 attack , and hama milit brought their bodi back to gaza . roughli 125 live and dead hostag now remain in gaza , accord to the isra author , as talk for a ceas - fire that would also secur their releas have stall . israel and hama have conduct indirect negoti for month in an attempt to clinch an agreement , but those talk collaps in earli may . on thursday , the isra prime minist ’ s offic said the war cabinet had order it negoti team tocontinu talk to reach a deal , but prospect appear remot as israel pursu it oper in rafah , in southern gaza . the isra govern ha face rise critic by some of the hostag ’ famili member , who say it ha not gone far enough to reach an agreement . “ the recoveri of their bodi is a silent but resolut remind that the state of israel is oblig to immedi dispatch negoti team with a clear demand to bring about a deal that will swiftli return all the hostag home , ” said the hostag famili forum , a group that repres famili member of the captiv . over the past week , a total of seven bodieshav been brought back to israelfor burial after be retriev by isra soldier and intellig offic . they includ shani louk , mr . radoux ’ s partner , an isra - german dual citizen who becam a symbol of the brutal of the hama attack . most of the seven hostag brought back had not been publicli declar presum dead by the isra author . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis