advertis even befor the war in gaza brought upheav to colleg campus , the rutger presid wa critic over hi respons to an instructor ’ strike and approv of a tuition increas . bysharon otterman when jonathan holloway , a scholar of african american histori , wa appoint as the 21st presid of rutger in 2020 , he said one of hi goal wa to foster “ a belov commun , ” a univers cultur defin by toler , divers and the spirit exchang of opinion and idea . “ if ever there is a time when peopl need to be authent listen to , it ’ s now , ” he toldrutg magazineshortli after take offic . “ so , it ’ s import to me to be grace . to grant grace . ” hi goal ha been test ever sinc . even befor the war in gaza brought upheav to colleg campus , dr . holloway wa under scrutini for sever unpopular move . thousand ofinstructor went on strike to demand better pay , lead dr . holloway to threaten a court order to forc them back to work . he also approv a tuition increas and remov a popular administr , thechronicl of higher educationreport . lastseptemb , in a symbol move , the rutger univers senat vote no confid in hi leadership follow the month of tumult . the rutger senat is a democrat elect group of faculti , staff and student ; it doe not , howev , have the power to remov the presid . thi spring , dr . holloway decid to strike adealwith pro - palestinian demonstr to end their four - day encamp at the univers ’ s new brunswick campu . some charg that he had reward demonstr after they disrupt campu life and chant anti - israel slogan that some view as antisemit . dr . holloway ha defend the agreement , even though he acknowledg that “ some of the statement that i have heard are disgrac and have no place at a univers . ” “ the result of our action wa a peac return to the normal cours of busi , ” he told the school ’ sboard of governorson may 6 . befor becom rutger ’ sfirst black presid , dr . holloway wa provost of northwestern univers and a professor of histori at yale for nearli two decad . at yale , he also serv as dean of yale colleg . presid holloway ’ s scholarli work focus on african american histori after the civil war , and he ha publish sever book . one of hi yale cours on african american histori is availableonlin . sharon ottermani a time report cover higher educ , public health and other issu face new york citi . more about sharon otterman advertis