israel - hamaswar advertis algeria , the onli arab repres in the current makeup of the secur council , draft the resolut . byfarnaz fassihi seek to har the outrag over an isra strike on sunday that set fire to an encamp and kill at least 45 displac palestinian , includ children , mani diplomat at the unit nation secur council are back a new resolut thi week that would demand an immedi ceas - fire and a halt to israel ’ s militari oper in the citi of rafah . but they will have to overcom the object of the unit state , which ha veto power on the council and ha signal it will not support the resolut in it current form . algeria , the onli arab repres in the current makeup of the secur council , draft and circul the one - page resolut , which say that “ israel , the occupi power , shall immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in rafah . ” it call for “ an immedi ceas - fire respect by all parti , and also demand the immedi and uncondit releas of all hostag . ” the council held back - to - back meet on the war in gaza on tuesday and wednesday , first an emerg session behind close door about the strike on the encamp in rafah and then a schedul monthli open meet on the isra - palestinian conflict . algeria ’ s resolut wa expect to go to a vote in the come day . “ the human cost is self - evid and appal , ” algeria ’ s ambassador , amar bendjama , told the council on wednesday . “ these crime speak for themselv . ” one u . s . offici , who spoke on condit of anonym becaus he wa not author to speak publicli , said the unit state would block the current version of the resolut , which it view as unbalanc and problemat . he said that the unit state had propos a number of revis . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis