advertis domest and intern anger over israel ’ s respons to the oct . 7 attack ha complic presid biden ’ s diplomat and re - elect effort . bymichael crowley nearli five month sinc hama milit attack and kill about 1 , 200 peopl in israel , presid biden ha been swept into the result upheav in the region . as he prepar to address the nation , he find himself navig a wider middl east emerg with profound moral , polit and secur implic for hi presid . earli sympathi for israel after the oct . 7 attack ha given way to domest and intern anger over the suffer in gaza . israel ’ s subsequ militari campaign to crush hama ha now kill more than 30 , 000 palestinian , accord to offici in gaza , with dire shortag of food , water and medicin creat a humanitarian crisi . becaus israel ’ s militari heavili depend on american - suppli weapon and munit , mr . biden is under pressur at home and abroad to rein in israel and allevi the suffer in gaza . but despit increasingli adam call for israel to do more to protect civilian and provid them with aid , u . s . offici say that is not happen . even so , mr . biden ha restrain hi critic of israel ’ s right - wing govern and resist demand for restrict american aid to israel , often remind the world that israel wa brutal attack and ha a right to self - defens . he ha order airdrop of aid into gaza to supplement the limit truck convoy that enter the territori from israel . but aid worker say those aerial suppli will make littl differ . seek to do more , mr . biden will announc a plan for the unit state to build a float pier off gaza that can receiv more suppli . u . s . offici say their best hope is to help broker a deal between israel and hama to paus the fight for sever week , allow for the releas of isra hostag held by hama , and enabl a surg of humanitarian suppli into the territori . some u . s . offici think that such a paus in combat could evolv into a longer - term ceas - fire . talk among sever nation to strike a deal have been underway for week , and u . s . offici say that israel ha sign off on an offer . but hama ha yet to agre . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis