advertis support by mani offici may be confront feder investig , disput over student disciplin — and the prospect that the protest start all over again in the fall . byjeremi w . peter around now , univers offici might usual take a deep breath . campus are empti out for the end of the academ year . gone , for the most part , are the tent citi that student activist erect as a symbol of opposit to israel ’ s war in gaza . but thi summer might feel longer than most . congression republican have promis to press their investig into colleg antisemit , even as they have complet their latest hear , which they tri to turn into a public shame session for the leader of rutger , northwestern and the univers of california , lo angel , over their handl of campu encamp . and protest have likewis promis not to give up — with hundr walk out at harvard ’ s graduat on thursday , and student at u . c . l . a . pitch new tent and briefli take over a build . over the next few month , colleg will need to navig a complex set of challeng . there are ongo feder investig at score of univers and school district over their handl of antisemit claim . there are hundr of disciplin case to be decid . and plan are need for the fall , when colleg quad will fill back up just a coupl of month befor the presidenti elect — possibl with more protest . here is what may keep univers presid up at night . one of the major takeaway from the hear on thursday wa that the three univers had yet to resolv score of disciplinari case involv student protest . the chancellor of u . c . l . a . , gene block , said on thursday that the school wa conduct more than 100 investig into student conduct involv both antisemit and islamophobia . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis