israel - hamaswar advertis the presid outlin a plan to tri to get hama and israel to break out of a monthslong deadlock that ha result in the kill of thousand of palestinian . transcript israel ha offer a comprehens new propos . it ’ s a road map to an endur ceas - fire and the releas of all hostag . thi propos ha been transmit by qatar to hama . thi is truli a decis moment . israel ha made their propos . hama say it want a ceas - fire . thi deal is an opportun to prove whether they realli mean it . hama need to take the deal . for month , peopl all over the world have call for ceas - fire . now it ’ s time to rais your voic and demand that hama come to the tabl , agre to thi deal and end thi war that they began . at thi point , hama no longer is capabl of carri out anoth oct . 7 . and the palestinian peopl have endur sheer hell in thi war . too mani innoc peopl have been kill , includ thousand of children . it ’ s time to begin thi new stage . the hostag come home , for israel to be secur , for the suffer to stop . it ’ s time for thi war to end , and for the day after to begin . thank you veri much . byzolan kanno - youngsanddavid e . sanger zolan kanno - young report from rehoboth beach , del . , where presid biden will be spend the weekend . david e . sanger report from washington . declar hama no longer capabl of carri out a major terrorist attack on israel , presid biden said on friday that it wa time for a perman ceas - fire in gaza and endors a new plan he said israel had offer to win the releas of hostag and end the fight . “ it ’ s time for thi war to end , for the day after to begin , ” mr . biden said , speak from the state dine room at the white hous . he also gave a stark descript of hama ’ s diminish capabl after more than seven month of isra attack , say that “ at thi point , hama is no longer capabl of carri out anoth oct . 7 . ” “ thi is truli a decis moment , ” mr . biden said . “ israel ha made their propos . hama say it want a ceas - fire . thi deal is an opportun to prove whether they realli mean it . ” with that statement , mr . biden appear to be reveal hi true agenda : make public element of the propos in an effort to pressur both hama and israel to break out of a monthslong deadlock that ha result in the kill of thousand of palestinian . american offici have describedhama ’ s leader , yahya sinwar , as interest onli in hi own surviv and that of hi famili and inner circl , as they presum oper from tunnel deep under southern gaza . but offici have also said prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel ha littl incent to move to a real ceas - fire , becaus of the widespread belief in israel that as soon as the surviv hostag are return , and a last ceas - fire begin , he will most like lose hi fragil hold on power . mr . biden ’ s remark came at a pivot moment in hi re - elect campaign , a day after hi rival , former presid donald j . trump , wa convict of 34 feloni charg . at the same time , he ha been face grow pressur at home over the bloodsh in gaza , which ha led to erupt on colleg campus and on the street of american citi , and alien mani of hi own support . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis