israel - hamaswar advertis support by two coalit member threaten to toppl israel ’ s govern if prime minist benjamin netanyahu accept a deal for a ceas - fire and the releas of hostag that stop short of hama ’ s total destruct . byadam rasgon prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel maneuv into rougher polit water on monday , as two far - right partner threaten to bring down hi govern should israel agre to a ceas - fire deal that would end the war in gaza without elimin hama . mr . netanyahu told lawmak in a close - door meet on monday that presid biden had not present the “ whole pictur ” when he describ a propos ceas - fire from the white hous last week , accord to a person who attend the meet and request anonym . mr . netanyahu , howev , express open to a 42 - day paus in the fight , the person said , embrac at least part of the first phase of the three - part ceas - fire plan . mr . biden call the three - phase propos , which he said wa put forward by israel , a road map to an “ endur ceas - fire ” and to the releas of the remain hostag in gaza . if hama abid by the agreement ’ s term , the presid said , it would ultim lead to the “ cessat of hostil perman . ” “ it ’ s time to end thi war , ” mr . biden said two - far - right member of mr . netanyahu ’ s govern coalit , itamar ben - gvir , the nation secur minist , and bezalel smotrich , the financ minist , said on monday that they could not accept ani deal that stop short of complet elimin hama . as mr . biden describ it on friday , the isra militari ’ s attack in gaza had alreadi elimin hama as a major threat , and that “ at thi point , hama is no longer capabl of carri out anoth oct . 7 . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis