israel - hamaswar advertis the announc add to the pressur the presid is face on the issu from leader in the black commun , a group that is key to hi re - elect . byerica l . green report from washington the n . a . a . c . p . , the oldest and largest civil right group in the nation , call on thursday for presid biden to “ draw the red line ” and halt weapon shipment to israel over the mount civilian death toll in it war in gaza . in a rare foray into foreign polici , the influenti organ ad to the mount pressur from black leader on mr . biden to stop aid israel ’ s war in gaza . it warn come as mr . biden tri to shore up soften support among black american , a constitu that wa crucial in catapult him to the white hous in 2020 and that he will need to win hi re - elect bid in novemb . init statement , the n . a . a . c . p . call on mr . biden to “ draw the red line and indefinit end the shipment of weapon and artilleri ” to israel and ani state that suppli weapon to terrorist organ , includ hama . “ the middl east conflict will onli be resolv when the u . s . govern and intern commun take action , includ limit access to weapon use against civilian , ” the statement said . the n . a . a . c . p . ’ s announc came the same day thatan isra airstrikein central gaza kill dozen of peopl at a unit nation school complex that had becom a shelter for thousand of displac palestinian . it tighten the polit bind mr . biden find himself in as he push for a ceas - fire to end the war while continu to provid support for a longtim u . s . alli . he ha recent withheld some offens weapon from israel and ha threaten to hold back more , but ha also made clear that he will continu to suppli defens system and arm that aid in israel ’ s “ abil to respond to attack ” like one iranlaunch in april . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis