israel - hamaswar advertis the move are a rebuk to israel , who is the face of mount intern anger over the countri ’ s militari offens in gaza . bycassandra vinograd three european nation formal recogn an independ palestinian state on tuesday , draw the ire of israel as it continu to press it militari offens in gaza . the previous announc move by spain , norway and ireland arelarg symbol , but serv as a rebuk to israel in the face of mount intern frustrat over the countri ’ s militari offens in gaza and it occup of palestinian territori over the year . they also come amid global outrag over an isra airstrik on sunday thatkil dozen of peopleat a camp for displac palestinian in rafah , despit intern call for the militari to curb it offens in the southern gaza citi . grow concern over the civilian death toll could prompt more nation to follow suit , analyst say . israel ’ s foreign minist , israel katz , on tuesdayaccusedspain ’ s prime minist , pedro sánchez , of complic in incit against jew for hi role in recogn a palestinian state . but mr . sánchez reject that claim in an address on tuesday ahead of a cabinet vote on the matter , call the recognit a matter of “ histor justic ” and a “ necess ” in order to achiev peac . “ the recognit of palestin is not against anyon , least of all israel , a friendli nation that spain valu and hold in high regard and with whom we aim to foster the strongest possibl relationship , ” he said on the step of moncloa palac , the prime minist ’ s resid , in madrid . “ furthermor , our decis reflect our absolut reject of hama , a terrorist organ that is against a two - state solut . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis