israel - hamaswar advertis news analysi an order to stop the rafah offens wa the latest action against israel , all of which creat “ a tremend sens of pressur , ” a former consul gener said . bypatrick kingsley report from jerusalem in 2011 , a former isra prime minist , ehud barak , warnedthat israel face a “ diplomat - polit tsunami ” of censur if it conflict with the palestinian went unresolv , as peac talk falter and revolut spread across the middl east . to isra foreign polici analyst , that tsunami ha never seem closer . on friday , the intern court of justic , an arm of the unit nation , order israel to suspend it militari campaign in rafahin southern gaza , ad to a grow list of diplomat and legal move against israel that have undermin it intern stand . the rule came just day after prosecutor at the intern crimin court , anoth intern tribun , call for thearrest of israel ’ s prime ministerand defens minist , a move that wa support by some longstand partner of israel , includ franc . the order came the same week thatthre european countriestook the coordin step of recogn palestin as a state . it also follow widespread univers campu protest in the unit state against israel ’ s campaign in gaza , as well as decis byturkey to suspend trade with israeland by beliz , bolivia andcolombiato break diplomat tie with israel . “ thi is not north korea or belaru or myanmar level of isol — but it is isol , ” said alon pinka , israel ’ s former consul gener in new york . “ it creat a tremend sens of pressur . ” the latest move by the intern court of justic may not have immedi practic effect : under the term of the order , israel ha a month to show how it ha compli with it instruct . even if israel ignor the order , the i . c . j . ha no mean of enforc it . in theori , the unit nation secur council can issu a resolut on the matter , but the unit state , israel ’ s most power alli , ha a perman seat on the council , enabl it to veto ani measur against israel . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis