israel - hamaswar advertis support by the treasuri secretari said alli from the group of 7 nation must work to stabil the west bank economi and increas gaza aid . byalan rappeport alan rappeport report from stresa , itali , where he is cover the group of 7 financ minist meet . treasuri secretari janet l . yellen warn israel on thursday againstcut off tiesbetween palestinian and isra bank , argu that such a move would further destabil the economi of the west bank when palestinian were alreadi face dire econom condit . ms . yellen ’ s comment came in the wake of israel ’ s decis on wednesday to withhold tax revenu from the palestinian author in retali for three european countri ’ unilater agre to recogn a palestinian state . ms . yellen and other top econom offici from the group of 7 nation are expect to discuss the matter and the humanitarian situat in gaza dure their summit in stresa , itali , which begin on thursday . “ i ’ m particularli concern by israel ’ s threat to take action that would lead to palestinian bank ’ be cut off from their isra correspond bank , ” ms . yellen said dure remark ahead of a news confer . ms . yellen ad that the bank channel were critic for process transact that allow $ 8 billion a year of import of food , fuel and electr from israel and $ 2 billion of palestinian export . the war in gaza is one of sever geopolit crise that are weigh on the global economi . the econom policymak are also plan to discuss russia ’ s war in ukrain and continu deliber over how to use more than $ 300 billion of frozen russian central bank asset to provid ukrain with addit aid . offici from the group of 7 will also be discuss way to tighten sanction on russia and how to prevent china from provid the countri with militari support . ms . yellen said on thursday that the plight of the palestinian would be a topic of discuss with her counterpart and that a move to cut palestinian off from the intern financi system could fuel a “ humanitarian crisi . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis