israel - hamaswar advertis support by the interpret there is a substanti consensu among legal expert that israel can not continu it current rafah offens without violat the court ’ s order . byamanda taub report from london i had two thought on friday as i listen to the chief judg of the intern court of justic tell israel to halt it militari offens in rafah , the citi in southern gaza to which more than a million displac peopl fled earlier in the conflict . the first wa thatth court ’ s rulingwa unusu forc : the judg said israel “ must halt ” it militari offens in rafah “ immedi . ” mani observ had not expect the court to issu such a direct order becaus it ha no jurisdict to impos similar requir on hama , israel ’ s oppon in the war . my second thought wa that the court ’ s use of punctuat wa definit go to provok debat . here ’ s the key part of the rule : the state of israel shall , in conform with it oblig under the convent on the prevent and punish of the crime of genocid , and in view of the worsen condit of life face by civilian in the rafah governor : immedi halt it militari offens , and ani other action in the rafah governor , which may inflict on the palestinian group in gaza condit of life that could bring about it physic destruct in whole or in part . sure enough , for sever day some legal scholar have been argu about whether the claus that begin “ which may inflict ” put condit on the order to “ immedi halt . ” ha israel been told to halt it offens , or to do so onli if that offens is about to partli or complet destroy palestinian as a group ? in some way , the debat is a distract . there is a substanti consensu among legal expert that israel can not continu it current offens in rafah without violat the court ’ s order . five lead legal scholar i contact said the order wa clear on that point , and more saidth sameininterviewsandsoci mediapostsonlin . ( “ the current offens as current plan and execut is prohibit under ani read , ” wroteadil haqu , an intern law expert at rutger univers . “ thi sentenc mean israel must halt it current militari offens in rafah , ” wrotejanina dill , the co - director of the oxford institut for ethic , law , and arm conflict . ) we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis