israel - hamaswar advertis the report will be present to member of the secur council next week and releas publicli on june 18 , the u . n . said . byfarnaz fassihiandaaron boxerman the unit nation will add israel , hama and palestinian islam jihad to a list of countri and arm group that harm children when it releas it annual report on children and arm conflict , cite the heavi toll the war in gaza ha taken on minor , includ kill , maim and starvat , u . n . offici said . stéphane dujarr , the u . n . spokesman , said the bodi ’ s chief of staff call the isra ambassador to the unit nation , gilad erdan , on friday to inform him that israel would be list thi year . “ the call wa a courtesi afford to countri that are newli list , ” mr . dujarr said , “ to give countri a head - up and avoid leak . ” hama , the arm group that led gaza befor the war , and palestinian islam jihad , the second - largest arm group in the enclav , will be name in the report . hama is be cite becaus it fighter abduct and kill isra children when they attack israel on oct . 7 , a u . n . offici said . arm group that harm children in conflict , like the taliban and boko haram , are routin name in the annual report . the news of israel ’ s list further strain an alreadi deterior relationship between it and the unit nation . mr . erdan call the move “ an immor decis that aid terror and reward terrorist . ” he made a video record of the phone call andreleas part of it on the social media site x . mr . dujarr , the u . n . spokesman , call the releas of a record of the telephon call “ shock and unaccept and someth i ’ ve never seen in my 25 year serv thi organ . ” the unit nation ’ special repres for children and arm conflict prepar the yearli report under a mandat from the gener assembl and the secur council . the report will be present to member of the council next friday and releas publicli on june 18 , mr . dujarr said . the council will have an open debat about the report ’ s find later thi month . dure hama ’ s terrorist attack on oct . 7 , arm men kidnap children , some of them toddler and babi , and held them hostag in gaza . children were also among the roughli 1 , 200 isra and foreign kill . israel ’ s retaliatori bomb campaign and ground war in gaza ha kill at least 36 , 000 peopl , gazan health offici say , a larg portion of them women and children . the unit nation ha said that children in gaza also face famin and starvat becaus israel ha restrict humanitarian aid . mani children have also lost limb or been grave wound in other way . maje bamya , the palestinian deputi ambassador to the unit nation , said in a post on x , “ isra minist are the onli one surpris of such a develop ( list will be releas next week ) after the kill and maim of so mani palestinian children . ” farnaz fassihii the unit nation bureau chief for the time , lead coverag of the organ , and also cover iran and the shadow war between iran and israel . she is base in new york . more about farnaz fassihi aaron boxermani a time report fellow with a focu on intern news . more about aaron boxerman advertis