advertis when ask about the protest , gov . josh shapiro of pennsylvania said on thursday that it wa “ past time ” for penn ’ s administr to clear the encamp . bymattathia schwartz report from philadelphia a pro - palestinian encamp at the univers of pennsylvania ha expand , as student wrap up exam and the univers final it plan for graduat ceremoni on may 20 . a post onsoci mediabi an account associ with the penn encamp said the expans on wednesday night wa in respons to “ the administr ’ s continu bad - faith negoti ” over demand that the univers divest from financi support for israel . steve silverman , a spokesman for penn , declin to comment on the activist ’ assert that the univers wa not negoti in good faith . for nearli two week , the protest have been occupi the west side of a green space in front of colleg hall , the oldest build on campu . on wednesday night , after a march that brought a larg group of student and philadelphia activist to colleg hall , protest expand the encamp to the east side of the green space , move the metal barrier that had been erect to mark the boundari of the protest space . penn ’ s administr ha larg taken a hand - off approach to the encamp . but on thursday afternoon , the univers announc action against six student in connect with the “ unauthor encamp . ” in astat post on penn ’ s websit , the univers said it had impos “ mandatori temporari leav of absenc ” on the student pend “ disciplinari investig . ” when ask on thursday about the protest , gov . josh shapiro of pennsylvania said that it wa “ past time ” for penn ’ s administr to clear the encamp . “ over the last 24 hour at the univers of pennsylvania , the situat ha gotten even more unstabl and out of control , ” he said , speak at an unrel news conferencenear pittsburgh . the governor , who is a nonvot member of penn ’ s board of truste , demur when ask whether he would take independ action , say that the matter wa best left to campu administr and local polic . on thursday , the scene around the encamp wa subdu . some protest rest on a plinth beneath a statu of benjamin franklin . other walk around the encamp with the chief of penn ’ s fire and emerg servic , who wa survey the ground for potenti hazard . outsid the barrier were small group of polic offic , colleg administr and pro - israel counterprotest . thi week , penn announcedspeci secur measur for commenc , includ no bag and “ airport - style secur screen . ” advertis