israel - hamaswar advertis offici had confisc camera equip from the news agenc as a part of a feud with the pan - arab broadcast , but the decis wa revers after the biden administr privat express concern . byadam rasgon report from jerusalem israel ’ s commun ministri confisc camera equip from the associ press on tuesday afternoon , claim the agenc had violat a new broadcast law by provid imag of northern gaza to al jazeera . but hour later , israel ’ s commun minist , shlomo karhi , revers the decis and order the equip be return to the a . p . it wa not clear when the equip would be given back to the news agenc . the revers came after the biden administr express major concern to the isra govern and demand the equip be return , accord to an isra offici , who spoke on condit of anonym to discuss diplomat commun . the seizur appear to be an escal in israel ’ s effort to punish al jazeera , the pan - arab broadcast that the isra govern vote toshut down two week ago . it rais question about how far the isra author would go to cut off the qatari - fund channel , which ha provid extens coverag of israel ’ s militari offens in gaza . lauren easton , the a . p . ’ s vice presid of corpor commun , had denounc the isra govern ’ s action , call it “ an abus use ” of a new law that provid the author with tool to crack down on foreign news organ . in a statement on tuesday afternoon , the commun ministri said inspector had gone to a locat in southern israel use by the a . p . to broadcast live footag of the border with northern gaza , which is sever mile away . the ministri claim that the feed wa illeg be carri by al jazeera and assert that it wa show the activ of isra soldier and threaten their live . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis