israel - hamaswar advertis the iran - back militia ha launch dozen of attack on ship vessel in the vital sea rout in support of palestinian in gaza . byanjana sankar yemen ’ s houthi rebel attack a merchant ship in the red sea on wednesdayin the latest escal of the iran - back militia ’ s campaign against ship in support of palestinian in the gaza strip . a british govern maritim agenc said the vessel wa “ hit on the stern by a small craft ” about 66 nautic mile southwest of the houthi - held port of hodeida in yemen . after the attack , the ship wa “ take on water , and not under command of the crew , ” the agenc , the unit kingdom maritim trade oper , said in a statement on it websit . the statement said the ship ’ s master had report it wa also “ hit for a second time by an unknown airborn projectil . ” a houthi militari spokesman , yahya sare , said in a televis speech that the group had use unman surfac boat , a number of drone and ballist missil to target the ship , which he identifi as the tutor , a greek - own bulk carrier . he claim the ship wa serious damag and could sink . on wednesday , the houthi said they launch two joint militari oper with the islam resist in iraq , on the isra citi ashdod and haifa , a claim israel deni . sinc novemb , the houthi have launch dozen of attack on ship in the vital sea rout in the red sea and gulf of aden , stifl global maritim trade . in retali , the u . s . and british navi have been intensifi airstrik against houthi target , the latest come on june 7after the rebel group detain 11 unit nation employe in yemen . the u . s . central command said it forc had destroy four aerial drone and two anti - ship missil in houthi - control area of yemen last friday , as well as a houthi patrol boat in the red sea . in februari , american militari offici said the unit state struck five houthi militari target , includ an undersea drone they describ as an “ unman underwat vessel ” that they believ the houthi could have receiv from iran . advertis