israel - hamaswar advertis support by u . s . offici said that a temporari port , built from ship and then move close to shore , would allow hundr of truckload of aid to reach gazan on the brink of starvat . bydavid e . sanger , michael d . shearandthoma fuller face warn that the war - ravag gaza strip is on the precipic of widespread famin , the unit state on thursday announc plan for a larg - scale , amphibi militari oper in the mediterranean sea that would ferri food and other aid to desper civilian in the enclav . u . s . offici sketch out the plan , which would make the unit state more directli involv in deliv aid , hour befor presid biden wa schedul to give hi state of the union address on thursday even . detail for what they describ as a float pier off gaza would be includ in the speech , the offici said . the white hous call it an “ emerg mission ” that would allow hundr of truckload of addit aid to be deliv to gaza via the temporari port , which would be attach to some kind of temporari causeway . brief report , offici said it could take more than 30 to 60 day to implement , and involv hundr or thousand of u . s . troop on ship just off shore , in keep with mr . biden ’ s mandat that no american soldier be on the ground insid gaza as the conflict rage . the port would be construct in cooper with other countri in the region , the offici said . american offici said that they had “ work close ” with isra as they develop the seaport initi , but they did not specifi whether israel would provid direct assist or support for it construct or oper . shani sasson , a spokeswoman for cogat , the isra agenc which regul aid to palestinian in gaza , did not respond to a request for comment . one isra offici , speak on the condit of anonym to discuss diplomat negoti , said that under the latest plan , aid donat by the unit arab emir would be sent to cypru , where it would eventu be inspect , then transport by ship to the coast of gaza . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis