israel - hamaswar advertis leader from the associ press , reuter and other call for the safeti of the palestinian media worker do the on - the - ground report . bygaya gupta nearli 60 leader from intern and region news outletssign a letteron thursday and friday commit their support for journalist cover the war in gaza and call for their safeti and the freedom to do their work amid intens person risk . the letter , coordin by the committe to protect journalist with the support of the world associ of news publish , also call on isra author to protect journalist as noncombat , as requir by intern law , ad that those respons for violat of that protect should be held account . “ these journalist — on whom the intern news media and the intern commun reli for inform about the situat insid gaza — continu to report despit grave person risk , ” the letter say of the palestinian media worker do the on - the - ground report . “ they continu despit the loss of famili , friend and colleagu , the destruct of home and offic , constant displac , commun blackout and shortag of food and fuel . ” the signatori includ leader of the associ press , reuter , the new york time and region outlet across africa , the middl east , europ and asia . palestinian journalist have face grave risk or person loss while tri to report on the war : some have been injur while report ; other have lost famili member and colleagu . sever have quit amid the challeng . sinc oct . 7 , at least 94 journalist have been kill in the war , make it the deadliest period for journalist sinc the committe to protect journalist start collect data in 1992 , accord to the organ . isra and egyptian author have prohibit intern media from enter gaza , and journalist from other major news outlet have evacu , make the true scale of the warimpossibleto grasp . accord to data from the committe to protect journalist , most of the media worker kill in the war were palestinian , and mani of them were kill along with their famili in airstrik . some human right group have said that israel ha target journalist , though israel ha repeatedli deni that accus . the letter prompt backlash from somejournalistswho said they or their colleagu were punish by their news organ for affirm their support for palestinian journalist and civilian in letter highli critic of israel ’ s war tactic in gaza . when journalist haveresignedorbeen firedfor protest the israel - hama war , news organ have said that voic opinion that take side violat their newsroom polici . gaya guptai areport fellowon the live team at the time . more about gaya gupta advertis