israel - hamaswar advertis support by hama monitor polit activ , onlin post , and appar even love live . palestinian were stuck between an isra blockad and a repress secur forc . byadam rasgonandronen bergman adam rasgon report from jerusalem , and ronen bergman from tel aviv . the hama leader yahya sinwar ha for year overseen a secret polic forc in gaza that conduct surveil on everyday palestinian and built file on young peopl , journalist and those who question the govern , accord to intellig offici and a trove of intern document review by the new york time . the unit , known as the gener secur servic , reli on a network of gaza inform , some of whom report their own neighbor to the polic . peopl land in secur file for attend protest or publicli critic hama . in some case , the record suggest that the author follow peopl to determin if they were carri on romant relationship outsid marriag . hama ha long run an oppress system of govern in gaza , and mani palestinian there know that secur offici watch them close . but a 62 - slide present on the activ of the gener secur servic , deliv onli week befor the oct . 7 attack on israel , reveal the degre to which the larg unknown unit penetr the live of palestinian . the document show that hama leader , despit claim to repres the peopl of gaza , would not toler even a whiff of dissent . secur offici trail journalist and peopl they suspect of immor behavior . agent got critic remov from social media and discuss way to defam polit adversari . polit protest were view as threat to be undermin . everyday gazan were stuck — behind the wall of israel ’ s crippl blockad and under the thumb and constant watch of a secur forc . that dilemma continu today , with the ad threat of isra ground troop and airstrik . “ we ’ re face bombard by the occup and thuggeri by the local author , ” ehab fasfou , a journalist in the gaza strip who appear in the file of the gener secur servic , said in a phone interview from gaza . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis