israel - hamaswar advertis support by unrwa , the aid agenc for palestinian , is prepar to publish an investig base on testimoni from more than 100 detaine that accus isra troop of abus . bymonika pronczukandpatrick kingsley to report thi articl , the new york time review a leak u . n . investig , interview releas detaine and spoke to lawyer who are research condit in isra detent facil . an unpublish investig by the main unit nation agenc for palestinian affair accus israel of abus hundr of gazan captur dure the war with hama , accord to a copi of the report review by the new york time . the report wa compil by unrwa , the u . n . agenc that is itself at the center of an investig after accus that at least 30 of it 13 , 000 employe particip in the hama - led attack on southern israel on oct . 7 . the author of the report alleg that the detaine , includ at least 1 , 000 civilian later releas without charg , were held at three militari site insid israel . the report said the detaine includ male and femal whose age rang from 6 to 82 . some , the report said , die in detent . the document includ account from detaine who said they were beaten , strip , rob , blindfold , sexual abus and deni access to lawyer and doctor , often for more than a month . the draft document describ “ a rang of ill - treatment that gazan of all age , abil and background have report face in makeshift detent facil in israel . ” such treatment , the report conclud , “ wa use to extract inform or confess , to intimid and humili , and to punish . ” the report is base on interview with more than 100 of the 1 , 002 detaine who were releas back to gaza by mid - februari . the document estim that 3 , 000 other gazan remain in isra detent without access to lawyer . it find echo those of severalisraeliandpalestinianright group , as well as separ investig by twou . n . special rapporteur , all of whom alleg similar abus insid isra detent center . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis