advertis support by news analysi presid biden ha promis to support the two countri for as long as it take . both their war appear to be at critic turn point . bydavid e . sanger report from washington over the past five day , presid biden ha been engag in a veri public demonstr of the struggl of manag two of america ’ s most difficult alli , presid volodymyr zelenski of ukrain and prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel , both lead countri that the presid ha vow to defend , as long as it take . the conflict they are engag in could not be more differ , born out of grievanc that reach back decad . but by coincid , both confront seem to be at critic turn point , that moment when it becom obviou how starkli nation interest are diverg — to say noth of the polit interest of three leader clearli worri about their own hold on power . ad to the complex of the problem , it is unclear in washington exactli what an accept endgam might look in ukrain or in gaza . offici , ukrain still talk about total victori , push russia out of everi inch of territori it seiz sinc the februari 2022 invas . israel still speak of the goal of the “ total destruct ” of hama , the onli way to assur that it could never again mount an attack like the oct . 7 assault that kill nearli 1 , 200 isra and spark seven month of brutal retali . but in washington , those ralli call sound increasingli unrealist . russia appear to be regain momentum . the call for the total defeat of hama sound like a rational for perpetu war — and , in fact , isra offici have publicli declar the war in gaza will like continu to the end of the year , if not longer . so mr . biden ha taken to crisi manag , tri to prevent the worst , even if he can not answer the question of how , exactli , these war end . “ neither ukrain nor israel is a treati alli , ” said aaron david miller , a senior fellow at the carnegi endow for intern peac and a longtim mideast negoti . he wa refer to the statu of the other 31 member of nato , which are oblig to come to one anoth ’ s defens , and the formal american pact with japan , south korea , the philippin and other . “ and yet we are fulli invest in how to get these war to the next phase , a phase where we lessen the violenc , even if we can ’ t articul a realist vision of how it stop . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis