israel - hamaswar advertis support by news analysi the isra prime minist ha been put on the spot by presid biden ’ s announc outlin a propos for a truce . byisabel kershner report from jerusalem for month , prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel ha refus to offer a timelin for end the war against hama in gaza , a stanc hi critic see as a polit tactic . but he ha been put on the spot by presid biden ’ s announcementoutlin a propos for a truce . mr . netanyahu , a conserv , ha long juggl compet person , polit and nation interest . he now appear to be face a stark choic between the surviv of hi hard - line , hawkish govern and bring home hostag held in gaza while set himself and israel on a new cours away from grow internationalisol . critic of the prime minist have portray him as indecis and say there are two netanyahu . one , they say , function pragmat in the small war cabinet he form with some centrist rival , to give it public legitimaci . the other is effect be held hostag by the far - right member of hi govern coalit , who oppos ani concess to hama and who ensur hi polit surviv . on friday , mr . biden outlin broad term that he said were present by israel to the american , qatari and egyptian mediat who have been push for a deal to paus the fight and free hostag in gaza . isra offici confirm that the term match a ceas - fire propos that had been approv by israel ’ s war cabinet but not yet present to the isra public . now , analyst say , it is crunchtim for bibi , as the prime minist is popularli known . mr . biden “ boot netanyahu out of the closet of ambigu and present netanyahu ’ s propos himself , ” ben caspit , a biograph and longtim critic of the prime minist , wrote in sunday ’ s maariv , a hebrew daili . “ then he ask a simpl question : doe bibi support netanyahu ’ s propos ? ye or no . no nonsens and hot air . ” the leader of two far - right parti in the coalit — bezalel smotrich , israel ’ s minist of financ , and itamar ben - gvir , the nation secur minist — have pledg to bring mr . netanyahu ’ s govern down if the prime minist goe along with the deal outlin by mr . biden befor hama is fulli destroy . some hard - line member of mr . netanyahu ’ s own likud parti have said they will join them . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis