israel - hamaswar advertis a commiss produc the unit nation ’ most detail examin yet of the oct . 7 attack and the subsequ war in gaza . bynick cum - bruce report from geneva a unit nation commiss investig the oct . 7 attack on israel and the subsequ conflict in gaza ha accus both palestinian arm group and israel of commit war crime , and the panel said that israel ’ s conduct of the war includ crime against human . in a report releas on wednesday , the three - person commiss — led by navi pillay , a former unit nation human right chief — provid the most detail u . n . examin yet of event on and sinc oct . 7 . the report doe not itself carri ani penalti , but it lay out a legal analysi of action in the gaza conflict that is like to be weigh by the intern court of justic and in other intern crimin proceed . israeldid not cooperatewith the investig and protest the panel ’ s assess of it behavior , the panel said . the report said that hama ’ s militari wing and six other palestinian arm group — aid in some instanc by palestinian civilian — kill and tortur peopl dure the oct . 7 assault on israel in which more than 800 civilian were among the more than 1 , 200 kill . an addit 252 peopl , includ 36 children , were taken hostag , the report said . “ mani abduct were carri out with signific physic , mental and sexual violenc and degrad and humili treatment , includ in some case parad the abducte , ” the report said . “ women and women ’ s bodi were use as victori trophi by male perpetr . ” the commiss also review alleg by journalist and the isra author that palestinian milit had commit rape , but it said that it had “ not been abl to independ verifi such alleg ” becaus israel had not cooper with the inquiri . the report cite “ a lack of access to victim , wit and crime site and the obstruct of it investig by the isra author . ” hama ha reject all accus that it forc engag in sexual violenc against isra women , the commiss note . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis