hunter bidengun trial advertis support by in a wide - rang interview with abc news , the presid touch on hunter biden ’ s trial , donald trump ’ s feloni convict and the war in gaza . byzolan kanno - young report from washington follow our live coverag of theverdict in hunter biden ’ s gun trial . presid biden said on thursday that he would not grant hunter biden a pardon if he wa convict in hi feloni gun trial , a rare comment from mr . biden about the legal troubl face hi son . when ask dure aninterview with abc newswheth he would accept the outcom of thetrial of hi son , who face charg includ lie on an applic to obtain a gun in octob 2018 , mr . biden said , “ ye . ” in the wide - rang interview , the presid also defend hi border polici and reiter hi support for a ceas - fire propos in the war in gaza . when the topic turn to former presid donald j . trump and hi recent feloni convict , mr . biden said hi oppon need to “ stop undermin the rule of law . ” last week , a new york juri found mr . trump guilti of 34 count of falsifi busi record to cover up hush money paid to a porn actress , in an unlaw conspiraci to aid hi 2016 presidenti campaign . he ha sinc repeat hiscritic of the judg in the caseandsuggest he could seek to prosecut hi polit opponentsif elect again . at acampaign ralli in arizona on thursday , mr . trump call hi trial “ rig ” and said the charg had been “ fabric . ” mr . biden took on a sharper edg when ask about hi polit oppon ’ s broadsid after a recent execut order allow thesuspens of asylum at the u . s .- mexico border . the former presid call the move “ weak and pathet . ” “ is he describ himself — weak and pathet ? ” mr . biden said in the interview , which took place on the sidelin of hi visit to the beach of normandi in franc to observ the 80th anniversari of d - day . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis