israel - hamaswar advertis neither israel or hama have said definit whether they would accept or reject a propos outlin by presid biden , but sizabl gap between the two side appear to remain . bymatthew mpoke bigg presid biden rais hope last week when he endors a plan that he said could lead to a “ cessat of hostil perman . ” he said israel had put forward the plan , but neither israel nor hama ha said definit that they would accept or reject the propos , and they appear to still be lock in disagr over fundament issu . here ’ s a look at what is known about the ceas - fire deal , which key point still must be negoti , and the hurdl still ahead : israel and hama agre to a ceas - fire in novemb that last for a week . but the propos now on the tabl — as laid out by mr . biden , a senior u . s . administr offici and isra offici — is more ambiti . major issu remain unresolv , includ whether hama would remain in control of the gaza strip . the proposalwould unfold in three phase . inphas one , among other thing , israel would withdraw from popul center in gaza dure a six - week ceas - fire , and dozen of women and elderli hostag held in gaza by hama and it alli would be exchang for hundr of palestinian detaine in isra prison . dure that time , talk over a perman ceas - fire would continu , and if success , the deal would enter phase two , with the full withdraw of israel ’ s militari from the enclav . all hostag and more palestinian prison would be freed . under phase three , hama would return the bodi of hostag who had die , and a three - to five - year reconstruct period , back by the unit state , european countri and intern institut , would begin . one of the key gap between hama and israel over the plan is the length of the ceas - fire and the futur role of hama . prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel said on monday that he wa open to a six - week ceas - fire , accord to a person who attend a close - door meet he held with isra lawmak . but publicli he ha said that israel will fight until hama ’ s govern and militari capabl are destroy . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis