israel - hamaswar advertis the vote wa aim at keep the divis issu in the hand of legisl instead of judg , who have repeatedli determin that an exempt should not stand . byephrat livni israel ’ s parliament on tuesday vote to reviv a bill that would enabl ultra - orthodox men to be draft into the militari , a divis issu that ha becom especi contenti sinc the war in gaza began last octob . the vote , which pass 63 - 57 , wa a procedur step aim at keep the hot - button issu in the hand of legisl instead of judg , who have repeatedli determin thatth exempt , date to the found of israel , should not stand . mani secular isra have long lament the draft exempt for the most religi member of societi . the issu ha taken new promin sinc the hama - led attack in israel on oct . 7 set off a war that ha prompt repeat call - up of reserv soldier . the bill , which reviv a propos made in 2022 , would limit the exempt for young ultra - orthodox men enrol in religi studi , establish recruit quota for them and provid altern servic option , among other chang . some critic contend , howev , that the propos would not significantli increas militari servic among the ultra - orthodox , known in hebrew as haredim . the bill wa advanc in may by prime minist benjamin netanyahu , in an appar effort to deter israel ’ s suprem court from take the lead on the matter . the justic are current consid whether the govern must immedi begin draft the ultra - orthodox , follow the expir of a law last year that wa temporarili extend and ha expir again . the vote on tuesday wa wide seen as intend to send a signal to the court that the knesset wa address the issu . the court order the govern to address it long ago , but year of legisl effort have fail to produc meaning chang . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis