israel - hamaswar advertis support by some said the decis to seek arrest warrant for both isra and hama leader on war crime charg seem to equat victim with perpetr . byhiba yazbek , ameera haroudaandiyad abuheweila palestinian in gaza express mix feel after the chief prosecutor at the world ’ s top crimin court said he wasseek arrest warrantsfor leader of both israel and hama on war crime charg , a move that mani said equat victim with perpetr . “ we deplor , denounc and are surpris by the decis of the intern crimin court which place the accus , the victim , and the execution in one cage , ” said zahir essam , a 55 - year - old live in gaza citi . karim khan , the chief prosecutor of the intern crimin court , announc on monday hi decis to appli for arrest warrant for yahya sinwar , hama ’ s leader in gaza ; muhammad deif , hama ’ s militari chief ; and ismail haniyeh , the movement ’ s qatar - base top polit offici . he also said he would seek warrant for prime minist benjamin netanyahu and defens minist yoav gallant of israel . the announc in effect treat isra offici and hama leader in the same way , despit what mr . essam see as a power imbal between the two side in the conflict in gaza , which began when hama led an attack on israel on oct . 7 . that attack kill about 1 , 200 peopl , and about 240 other were taken hostag , isra offici say . israel ’ s retaliatori war in gaza ha kill more than 35 , 000 palestinian , accord to gazan health author , though their figur do not distinguish between civilian and combat . mani palestinian view the oct . 7 attack as a justifi respons to isra violat dure the decad - long isra occup of palestinian territori . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis