israel - hamaswar advertis support by nyu langon health gave the nurs , hesen jabr , an award for her work . she said hospit offici then fire her becaus she made pro - palestinian remark in an accept speech . byjoseph goldstein earlier thi month , nyu langon health bestow an award on a labor and deliveri nurs for provid compassion care to mother who had lost babi . but shortli after , the nurs said , the hospit fire her over the speech she gave when she accept the award . in it , she spoke of the suffer of palestinian women amid the israel - hama war , which she call a “ genocid . ” the nurs , hesen jabr , is not the first medic worker to be fire at nyu langon , a major new york hospit system , over commentari about the isra - palestinian conflict . the hospitali current embroil in a lawsuitbi a promin cancer research , whowa fire from hi joba the director of it cancer center after he post a varieti of anti - hama polit cartoon . some includ offens caricatur of arab peopl . a young doctor - traine wa also “ remov from servic ” at an nyu langon hospit on long island , accord to the hospit , after be accus of post a messag on instagram defend the oct . 7 hama attack on israel — though he wa later quietli reinstat . in her speech , accordingto a video she post on social media , ms . jabr drew a connect between her work with griev mother in new york and the war in gaza . “ it pain me to see the women from my countri go through unimagin loss themselv dure the current genocid in gaza , ” said ms . jabr , who is palestinian - american . “ thi award is deepli person to me for those reason . ” she ad , “ even though i can ’ t hold their hand and comfort them as they griev their unborn children and the children they have lost dure thi genocid , i hope to keep make them proud as i keep repres them here at nyu . ” we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis