israel - hamaswar advertis the unit state among a hand of holdout on the vote , which wa wide seen as a rebuk of the american and israel . byerica l . green report from washington a white hous spokesman on friday defend the unit state ’ decis to opposea u . n . resolut declar support for palestinian statehood , say that such a measur should be negoti in the middl east . the unit state wa among a hand of holdout as the unit nation gener assembl overwhelmingli adopt a resolut declar that palestinian qualifi for full membership at the unit nation . the vote wa wide seen as a rebuk of israel and the unit state as global outrag mount over the israel - hama war . john f . kirbi , a white hous nation secur spokesman , said presid biden remain “ fulli and firmli commit ” to a palestinian state , but the u . n . resolut wa not the way to establish it . “ we continu to believ in the power and promis of a two - state solut , and an independ state for the palestinian peopl , ” mr . kirbi told report . “ we also believ that the best way to do that is through direct negoti with the parti and not through a vote of the u . n . of thi kind . ” friday ’ s vote come as the tie between the unit state and israel , it closest alli in the middl east , are test over the war in gaza . more than 34 , 000 peopl have die in gaza , includ both combat and civilian , and the director of the world food program ha said that part of the gaza strip are experienc a “ full - blown famin . ” the unit state is thebiggest supplier of weaponsto israel , and mr . biden is hope to use that leverag to get prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel to forgo a long - threaten invas of rafah , the southern gaza citi where more than one million palestinian have taken refug . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis