israel - hamaswar advertis support by israel ’ s ministri of diaspora affair order the oper , which use fake social media account urg u . s . lawmak to fund israel ’ s militari , accord to offici and document about the effort . bysheera frenkel report from tel aviv israel organ and paid for an influenc campaign last year target u . s . lawmak and the american public with pro - israel messag , as it aim to foster support for it action in thewar in gaza , accord to offici involv in the effort and document relat to the oper . the covert campaign wa commiss by israel ’ s ministri of diaspora affair , a govern bodi that connect jew around the world with the state of israel , four isra offici said . the ministri alloc about $ 2 million to the oper and hire stoic , a polit market firm in tel aviv , to carri it out , accord to the offici and the document . the campaign began in octob and remain activ on the platform x . at it peak , it use hundr of fake account that pose as real american on x , facebook and instagram to post pro - israel comment . the account focus on u . s . lawmak , particularli one who are black and democrat , such as repres hakeem jeffri , the hous minor leader from new york , and senat raphael warnock of georgia , with post urg them to continu fund israel ’ s militari . chatgpt , the artifici intellig - power chatbot , wa use to gener mani of the post . the campaign also creat three fake english - languag news site featur pro - israel articl . the isra govern ’ s connect to the influenc oper , which the new york time verifi with four current and former member of the ministri of diaspora affair and document about the campaign , ha not previous been report . fakereport , an isra misinform watchdog , identifi the effort in march . last week , meta , which own facebook and instagram , andopenai , which make chatgpt , said they had also found and disrupt the oper . the secret campaign signal the length israel wa will to go to sway american opinion on the war in gaza . the unit state ha long been one of israel ’ s staunchest alli , with presid biden recent signinga $ 15 billion militari aid packagefor the countri . but the conflict ha beenunpopular with mani american , who have call for mr . biden to withdraw support for israel in the face of mount civilian death in gaza . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis