israel - hamaswar advertis support by when a truck carri three of four rescu hostag broke down and came under fire , israel say it call in an airstrik . score of palestinian were kill , gazan offici say . bybil shbairandronen bergman bilal shbair report from nuseirat in the gaza strip , and ronen bergman from tel aviv . when the four isra woke up in gaza on saturday , they had been heldhostag by hama for 245 day . the build in which they were be kept , two low - rise , concret apart block , look much like the other nearbi resid in a civilian neighborhood full of palestinian famili . within a few hour , the captiv , three men and one woman , would be reunit with their own famili , the result of a riski , long - plan rescu oper in which the full might of the isra militari would be use to devast effect . “ i ’ m so emot , ” one hostag , noa argamani , 26 , told prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel in a phone call after her releas . “ it ’ s been so long sinc i heard hebrew . ” the rescu effort in nuseirat involv hundr of intellig offic and two team of commando who simultan storm the home in which the hostag were be held , the isra militari said . in one apart , where the male hostag were imprison , a firefight broke out between the soldier and the hama guard , accord to the militari and video footag it releas of the encount . later , and under a hail of gunfir , the truck in which three hostag and a wound isra offic were be evacu broke down and wa surround by milit , isra offici said . in an effort to give the rescuer enough time and ampl cover to get the captiv to freedom , the militari said , the air forc began strike dozen of nearbi target . mani palestinian becam awar of the fight onli when they heard bomb explod . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis