israel - hamaswar advertis support by the demonstr includ ring the white hous ground with a red banner show the name of the more than 36 , 000 palestinian kill dure the war . transcript protest : “ forti thousand peopl dead . ” “ joe biden , your hand are red . ” [ cheer ] “ we will free palestin . ” “ we will free palestin . ” byminho kim report from washington editor ’ s note : thi articl wa updat on june 10 with a statement from the nation park servic . thousand of pro - palestinian protest in washington converg around the white hous on saturday , urg presid biden to stop all militari aid to israel and call for an immedi ceas - fire in israel ’ s war in gaza . hold sign call mr . biden a liar , the protest , mostli clad in red and bear palestinian flag , march around the block of parkland where the white hous sit . they spill across two six - lane boulevard , push out tourist , whose face show variat of confus , anger or intrigu . the polic presenc wa heavi , and the u . s . park polic use pepper spray against a protest at least onc . mr . biden wa not at the white hous but in franc , where he join presid emmanuel macron for a state dinner in pari on saturday night . but the dissent voic in the american capit highlight the challeng he face domest as he tri to carv out a narrow posit that both support israel ’ s right to defend itself against hama and call for a quick cessat of hostil . the pro - palestinian activist outsid the white hous , who were highli critic of the biden administr ’ s respons to the war , encourag a key portion of mr . biden ’ s base — young and nonwhit voter — to reconsid their support for the presid ahead of the elect thi fall . “ there is no world in which i can confid vote for ” mr . biden , said na issa , a spokeswoman for the palestinian youth movement , one of the left - lean group that organ saturday ’ s protest . if mr . biden “ doesn ’ t chang cours and hold netanyahu and the isra govern at larg to account , under what circumst would it be accept to ani person of conscienc to vote for him ? ” she ad , refer to prime minist benjamin netanyahu of israel . on saturday afternoon , some protest creat a ring along the mile - long white hous perimet , unspool consecut length of red paper on which name of the more than 36 , 000 palestinian who had been kill dure the war were written . the other march along the perimet . the format wa intend to evok a red line that , if cross by the isra militari in gaza , would caus mr . biden towithhold weapon shipment to israel . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis