israel - hamaswar advertis the vote come after the unit state last month veto a secur council measur grant full u . n . membership to a palestinian state . transcript “ a ‘ ye ’ vote is a vote for palestinian exist . it is not against ani state , but it is against the attempt to depriv us of our state . that is whi the isra govern is so oppos to it . becaus they oppos our independ and the two - state solut altogeth . ” “ thi is your mirror . so that you can see exactli what you are inflict upon the u . n . charter with thi destruct vote . thi is — you are shred the u . n . charter with your own hand . ” “ the result of the vote is as follow : in favor 143 , against nine , abstent 25 . draft resolut a / es10 / l30 / rev1 is adopt . ” [ cheer ] byfarnaz fassihi the unit nation gener assembl on friday overwhelmingli adopt a resolut declar that palestinian qualifi for full - member statu at the unit nation , a highli symbol move that reflect grow global solidar with palestinian and is a rebuk to israel and the unit state . the resolut wa approv by a vote of 143 to 9 with 25 nation abstain . the assembl broke into a big applaus after the vote . but the resolut doe not mean a palestinian state will be recogn and admit to the unit nation as a full member anytim soon . the assembl can onli grant full membership with the approv of the secur council , and , if histori is a guid , the unit state would almost inevit wield it veto power to kill such a measur , as it did in april . even though a major in the gener assembl have long support palestinian statehood , the resolut wa the first time the bodi had vote on the issu of full membership . the resolut declar that “ the state of palestin is qualifi for membership in the unit nation ” under it charter rule and recommend that the secur council reconsid the matter with a favor outcom . the resolut wa prepar by the unit arab emir , the current chair of the u . n . arab group , and sponsor by 70 countri . the unit state vote no , along with hungari , argentina , papua new guinea , micronesia and nauru . “ the vast major of countri in thi hall are fulli awar of the legitimaci of the palestinian bid and the just of their caus , which face fierc attempt to suppress it and render it meaningless today , ” said the u . a . e . ambassador , moham abushahab , as he introduc the resolut on behalf of the arab group . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis