israel - hamaswar advertis the annual march celebr israel ’ s 1967 takeov of the mostli palestinian east jerusalem ha long been a flashpoint . byaaron boxerman report from jerusalem ten of thousand of jewish isra join an annual nationalist march on wednesday through the heart of jerusalem to celebr israel ’ s 1967 captur of the citi ’ s eastern half , with some chant extremist slogan call for violenc against arab . the ralli , known as the danc of the flag or the flag march , ha long been a flashpoint for tension between isra and palestinian , but secur forc were especi worri the event could spark violenc thi year becaus of the eight - month - long war between israel and hama , and a steep rise in violenc on the west bank . the march wind through jerusalem ’ s old citi toward the western wall , one of judaism ’ s holiest site . chant , danc and wave blue - and - white isra flag , the marcher made their way through the old citi ’ s damascu gate into larg palestinian area of jerusalem ’ s old citi . the marcher bang on the shutter of shop close by palestinian owner who fear attack and chant slogan that includ “ may your villag burn down ” and a biblic vers tweak to call for “ reveng on palestin . ” the isra polic said they arrest 13 peopl “ involv in variou violent incid ” in the old citi . some of the isra attend the march also hurl bottl and jeer at journalist from arab news outlet , who were watch the area from a design platform . offic later move in after the bottl - throw continu , detain five more peopl , the polic said . when ask about the violenc against journalist , matthew miller , a spokesman for the u . s . state depart , said : “ attack of that natur should be prevent when possibl . when they can ’ t be prevent they should be fulli prosecut , peopl should be held account under the law . ” the demonstr includ mani younger jewish isra , wear cloth emblazon with the slogan of the religi right ’ s high school and militari academi . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis