israel - hamaswar advertis support by news analysi a meet between the british foreign secretari , david cameron , and an isra minist , benni gantz , carri more weight than usual , analyst said , and stress the frustrat of israel ’ s alli . bymark landler report from london when benni gantz , a member of israel ’ s war cabinet , met david cameron , britain ’ s foreign secretari , in london on wednesday , he got a sharp messag that israel must do more to allow humanitarian aid to flow into gaza . it wa the kind of minist - level meet that would normal draw modest attent amid the flurri of high - level diplomaci that ha envelop the israel - hama war . but mr . gantz and mr . cameron are no mere functionari . mr . gantz , a former chief of staff of the israel defens forc , is a popular polit rival of prime minist benjamin netanyahu , and mr . netanyahu express deep displeasur at what he view as an unsanct trip by a would - be isra leader . mr . cameron , a former prime minist , ha enjoy uncommon latitud as foreign secretari , speak out forc on issu like gaza and the war in ukrain on intern trip , where he is often treat as though he were still in hi old job . the unusu optic of the meet — almost two shadow leader — speak to the peculiar domest polit in each countri . israel is in the grip of a devast war that ha pull mr . netanyahu and mr . gantz intoa temporari allianc . britain is in the twilight stage of an era of conserv - led govern , with a prime minist , rishi sunak , who ismor occupi with a gener electionlat thi year than with foreign polici . for britain , diplomat and expert said , deploy mr . cameron to deliv a tough messag to israel is valuabl becaus it will regist more than if it came from a standard - issu cabinet minist . it also spare mr . sunak the polit risk of press mr . netanyahu directli and potenti be rebuf . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis