israel - hamaswar advertis support by news analysi the isra prime minist is like to becom more depend on the right - wing partner in hi coalit govern after the centrist benni gantz and hi parti pull out of it . byisabel kershner report from jerusalem still fight israel ’ s outsid enemi on multipl front , prime minist benjamin netanyahu woke up on monday to a new polit battlefield at home . thedeparturethi weekend of benni gantz and hi centrist nation uniti parti from israel ’ s emerg wartim govern is unlik to immedi sever mr . netanyahu ’ s grip on power . the prime minist ’ s govern coalit still command a narrow major of 64 seat in the 120 - seat parliament . but mr . gantz ’ s move mean that mr . netanyahu is now total depend on hi far - right and ultra - orthodox coalit partner as he prosecut the war in gaza in the face ofmount intern opprobrium , leav him increasingli isol and expos at home and abroad . mr . gantz and gadi eisenkot , anoth power member of nation uniti , also leftmr . netanyahu ’ s small war cabinet . they are both former militari chief who were wide view as key voic of moder in the five - member bodi , which wa form in octob after the hama - led assault on israel prompt the isra bombard and ground invas of gaza . the two centrist politician rais public confid in the govern ’ s decis - make at a time of nation trauma . they also lent the war cabinet an aura of legitimaci and consensu as israel fought hama in gaza , as well as it archenemi iran and it other proxi , includ the power hezbollah militia across israel ’ s northern border with lebanon . mr . gantz accus mr . netanyahu of “ polit procrastin , ” suggest that he had been put off critic strateg decis to ensur hi polit surviv . hi decis to quit the wartim govern usher in a new period of polit instabl and ha left mani isra wonder where the countri goe from here . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis