israel - hamaswar advertis support by israel defi omin egyptian warn and took control of the philadelphi corridor , but the reaction from egypt , which want to maintain it secur cooper with israel , ha been mute . byvivian yee , emad mekayandisabel kershner report from cairo and jerusalem for week , talk show host and newspap columnist across egypt ’ s govern - manag media spoke with one voic : ani isra “ occup ” of a buffer zone on the egypt - gaza border could violat egypt ’ s sovereignti and nation secur . that would deal a further blow to a relationship that israel ’ s offens had alreadi push to it lowest point in decad . but when israel ’ s militari said last week that it had taken “ tactic control ” of the zone , known as the philadelphi corridor , the same govern mouthpiec were quick to say that the area had noth to do with egypt . sovereignti went unment . it wa the latest indic that for all the hard feel and secur fear provok by israel ’ s devast campaign in the gaza strip , cairo see littl choic but to protect it 1979 peac treati with israel . the accord ha gener valuabl militari and intellig cooper against egyptian insurg and natur ga import from israel , as well as a close relationship with the unit state and billion of dollar in american aid . for israel , too , the “ cold peac ” with egypt ha been an essenti pillar of nation secur for 45 year . it ha given israel a path to better relat with arab countri , some of which have normal their tie , make israel an increasingli integr part of a region , anti - iranian axi . for the same reason , the unit state also consid the treati , which grew out of the camp david accord , crucial to region stabil . still , israel took the risk of upset that delic balanc , say that it must control the narrow buffer zone between gaza and egypt for it own secur . israel say it need to destroy dozen of tunnel under the border that have enabl hama to smuggl in arm — despit egypt ’ s avow that had stop the smuggl year ago . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis