advertis support by the two presid , in a brief appear befor report , declin to take question , in a departur from tradit . bymichael d . shearandpet baker report from pari presid biden and presid emmanuel macron of franc stress on saturday how much they agre with each other about world affair , includ the war in ukrain , even as their countri have express sharpli differ view of the fight in gaza between israel and hama . appear briefli togeth in front of report after two day of d - day remembr and hour befor a lavish state dinner at the élysé palac in pari , the two presid declin to take ani question and paper over their stark differ about the middl east . instead , they both assert the endur strength of the american - french partnership on climat , the economi , european secur and cultur tie . “ today , i proudli stand with franc to support freedom and democraci around the world , ” mr . biden said , as the two men emerg from a close - door meet at the élysé palac . “ we see eye to eye on thi war rage in ukrain , ” mr . macron note , and he ad that he hope “ all member of the g7 will agre to a $ 50 billion solidar fund for ukrain , ” refer to the group of 7 industri nation . the french presid ’ s comment suggest that the two leader had reach common ground over a plan to leverag proce from frozen russian asset to provid an upfront loan of up to $ 50 billion to ukrain . american offici had said head into the meet that franc wa the main holdout for such a plan and that they were hope to win support dure the pari visit . on gaza , mr . macron note hi govern ’ s support for an isra ceas - fire propos that mr . biden ha strongli back . but the french presid also directli challeng israel to do more to deliv aid to palestinian suffer from the govern ’ s bombard . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis