israel - hamaswar advertis support by the rescu of four isra in gaza in a feroci assault over the weekend offer a glimps into an ambiti intellig oper aim at bring home those held by hama . byjulian e . barn , ronen bergman , eric schmittandadam entou report from washington and tel aviv the hostag in gaza are be move around , with hama shuttl some from one apart to anoth to obscur their whereabout , while other are believ to be in tunnel underground . all the while , at a “ fusion cell ” quietli form in israel last fall , american and isra intellig and militari analyst share imageri from drone and satellit , along with commun intercept and ani other inform that come their way that might offer a hint to the hostag ’ locat . more than one war is be wage in the gaza strip . for the most part , the world see the airstrik and the ground invas , which israel say are aim at dismantl hama and have reduc much of the territori to rubbl , set off a humanitarian crisi . butth rescueon saturday of four hostag wa a remind that israel and hama are engag in anoth , less visibl battl : the milit are determin to hold on to the hostag they seiz dure their deadli oct . 7 attack on israel , for use as human bargain chip . the isra are determin to bring them home . for more than eight month , the milit have had the upper hand . isra and american offici say they do not know where mani hostag are be held . and even when they do , in mani case , a rescu mission is simpli not possibl . to date , israel ha rescu a total of seven hostag , but the stark realiti is that sinc the war began , more hostag have die , either in the fight or at the hand of hama . israel ha recov far more bodi than live hostag . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis