israel - hamaswar advertis the vice presid urg hama to agre to a six - week ceas - fire propos and call on israel to increas the flow of aid into the enclav . transcript hama claim it want a ceas - fire . well , there is a deal on the tabl . and as we have said , hama need to agre to that deal . let ’ s get a ceas - fire . let ’ s reunit the hostag with their famili , and let ’ s provid immedi relief to the peopl of gaza . and given the immens scale of suffer in gaza , there must be an immedi ceas - fire , for at least the next six week , which is what is current on the tabl . byerica l . green report from selma , ala . vice presid kamala harri on sunday call for an “ immediateceas - fire ” in gaza , say that hama should agre to the six - week paus current on the tabl and that israel should increas the flow of aid into the besieg enclav amid a humanitarian crisi . ms . harri ’ s remark , deliv in selma , ala . , bolster a recent push by presid joe biden for an agreement and came a day befor she wa to meet with a top isra cabinet offici involv in war plan , benni gantz . her tone echo a sharper and more urgent tone come from the white hous as it frustrat with israel grow . last month , the presid call israel ’ s respons to the oct . 7 hama - led attack “ over the top . ” ms . harri assail the dire condit in gaza , call the situat a “ humanitarian catastroph . ” it wa her most forc assess to date of the middl east conflict , which ha kill more than 30 , 000 palestinian , accord to gazan health author , and put the enclav on the brink of famin . “ what we are see everi day in gaza is devast , ” ms . harri said . “ we have seen report of famili eat leav or anim feed . women give birth to malnourish babi with littl or no medic care . and children die from malnutrit and dehydr . as i have said mani time , too mani innoc palestinian have been kill . ” “ the threat hama pose to the peopl of israel must be elimin , ” ms . harri ad . “ and given the immens scale of suffer in gaza , there must be an immedi ceas - fire , for at least the next six week . ” mr . biden ha been push for a deal between hama and israel that would allow for the releas of hostag and a temporari ceas - fire by ramadan , the muslim holi month that start around march 10 . u . s . offici said that israel had “ more or less accept ” term of the deal , but hama ha yet to agre to it . we are have troubl retriev the articl content . pleas enabl javascript in your browser set . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . if you are in reader mode pleas exit andlog intoyour time account , orsubscribefor all of the time . thank you for your patienc while we verifi access . alreadi a subscrib ? log in . want all of the time ? subscrib . advertis